For Christian Fellowship
By KATHERINE
OCCUPANCY in the early summer of
its recently purchased headquarters at 14
West Madison street will establish another
milepost in the work of the Maryland-Dela-
ware Council of Churches and Christian
Education.
This organization, made up of sixteen Prot-
estant denominations, is the official Protestant
agency for interdenominational work in the
two states. Through it Episcopalians and Bap-
tists, Lutherans and Presbyterians, Meth-
odists and members of various other com-
munions disregard their differences and
work together on what the Rev. Willis R.
Ford, executive secretary of the council, calls
"the level of total agreement" in projects of
mutual concern.
The activities of the council radiate into
more than 39 different areas of religious and
social work. Its objective is the establishment
of Christian fellowship throughout the world.
Roots Go Back To 1842
Although the council was organized just
ten years ago with the merger, in the Spring
of 1937, of the Maryland-Delaware Council
of Religious Education, the Baltimore Council
of Religious Education and the Baltimore Fed-
eration of Churches, its roots go down
through more than a century to the forma-
tion, in 1842, of the Baltimore Sunday-School
Union for co-operative, interdenominational
Sunday-school work in Baltimore. In a short
time its work reached out into the counties,
resulting in the incorporation, 1846, of the
Maryland Sunday-School Unton as an aux-
iliary of the American Sunday-School Union.
Accomplishments of this organization were
modest but consistent until the Civil War,
when churches as well as lay institutions and
families were split by differences. In 1863 the
outlook seemed so bleak that the union was
about to disband. It was resuscitated by the
election as its president of Goldsborough S.
Grifmth, who had a wide reputation as Sunday.
school worker and organizer.
During his 41 years in office, ferminated
by his death in 1904, Mr, Griffith not only
succeeded in "saving the union" but, with the
coworkers he recruited among clergy and
laiety, was influential in the organization o
six social agencies in the State. These were
the Henry Watson Children's Aid Society, the
Maryland Prisoners Aid Society, Cheltenham
School for Colored Boys and Melvale-now
Glen Burnie-School for Colored Girls; the
Society for the Protection of Children fron
Cruelty and Immorality, and the Children's
Fresh Air Society.
Helped Prostrate Virginia
In 1864, while the Civil War was still rag.
Ing, 170 Sunday-schools were organized in the
Valley of Virginia, extending as far as Win.
chester, Charles Town and Martinsburg. Nu
merous churches which had been closed and
used as hospitals during the war were as
sisted financially, after Appomattox, to re
open. Missionaries, or field workers employed
by the union, drove horses and buggies over
roads on which 20 miles was a day's journey
traveled by train and on foot to organize :
total of nearly 1,000 Sunday-schools in Balti
more and Maryland, besides a total of 452 ir
Virginia before 1891.
In the early years of the present century
one of the outstanding accomplishment
among the churches in Baltimore was the
growth and development of a local church
SCARBOROUGH
program of religious education whiep received
nation-wide and international recognition.
The program originated with Preston Fiddis.
then superintendent of the Harlem Avenue
Christian Church School and successor to Mr.
Griffith as president of the Maryland Sunday-
School Union.
Through its department of Christian minis-
try to service men during World War II. the
council gave free week-end lodging in eight-
een church dormitories to 163,560 men anl
women; served 150,000 free meals. In addi-
tion, it sponsored five denominational church
clubs in the city for service men and women.
Women Furnished Company Houses
Sixty-five company houses in five camps
were furnished by church women. Presents
and cards were distributed by the thousands
at the Christmases of 1944 and 1945; 500
planos and record-players, with 15,000 rec-
ords, were given camps and ships.
Equally challenging to the council was the
concentration in and around Baltimore of the
army of migrant defense workers and their
families. Practically every shade of religious
opinion was represented among them, and
there were few or no churches in the vicinity
of the mushrooming war-housing areas to
serve them.
To provide these people with a religious
ministry, the denominations composing the
council took areas in which to work-Luther-
ans in one place, Methodists in another, and
so on.
This system succesfully is being continued
among the 50,000 people or so still living in
these areas,
Salvaging Delinquent Children
Working co-operatively with the Juvenile
Court and the appropriate denominational
agencies, the council's department of Chris.
tian social relations endeavors to provide
cach Protestant child who appears in court,
charged with delinquency, with a religious
and social ministry. Boys and girls are given
opportunity to participate in such group ac
tivities as scouting, dramatics and youth
choirs. Two trained case workers are em-
ployed by the council to assist the clergy
in counseling these children, who are helped
to overcome their fears and their sense of in-
security, and to assist in stabilizing the emo-
tional pattern of the homes in order that
parents may know better how to rear their
children. Of the 804 Protestant children who
appeared in the Juvenile Court in 1946, only
24 were there a second time.
Ten weekday schools of religious educa-
tion are being conducted for children in four
counties of the State and efforts are being
made to establish similar schools at Hagers-
town and Cumberland. Other educational
work on the council's agenda includes vaca-
tion Bible schools, audio-visual education, re-
ligious broadcasts and training for religious
leaders.
Looking toward the future, the Council
of Churches and Religious Education is work-
ing out an "agreement of comity" for the de
nominations and churches in the Maryland
Delaware area. Under it, efforts will be made
to locate new churches in accordance with
population trends, providing each commu
nity with adequate facilities for worship and
avoiding the crection of three or fous
churches of different denominations within
a block or so of each other.