News Of Women's Clubs
Festive, Affairs To Mark
Clubwomen's Calendar
This Week-Few Busi-
ness Sessions Planned
and will be presided over by Miss
Mary Wootton.
The following morning the league's
child welfare committee will meet in
its rooms at 9 East Pleasant street.
In the afternoon, led by the chair-
man, Miss Frances Morton, the mem-
bers will visit the Rosewood State
Training School near Owings Mills
and investigate conditions there. The
committee is planning to ask the
Maryland League of Women Voters
to include in its legislative program
a plea for a larger appropriation from
the State for the operation of the
institution.
MRS.
IRS. EDITH PILLING, field secre-
tary of the Women's Civic
League, will give two illustrated travel
talks this week to branches of the
league.
On Thursday night, at 8 o'clock, she
will speak at the Rognel Heights
MRS. C. MILTON WOOL. Methodist Episcopal Church on Wal-
FORD
Mrs. Woolford occupies two
posts on the board of the
Woman's Club of Roland
FIELD
nut avenue, and the following night MISS GERTRUDE SCHOOL-
will address a group at the home of
Mrs. Barbara Roh, 801 North Milton
avenue. Both talks will have for their
locale, France, England and Italy.
Park. She is both first vice- THE Women Lawyers Luncheon
president and chairman of the
program committee
Club has changed the day and
place of its regular weekly meeting.
Henceforth its members will gather at
12.15 o'clock every Thursday at 15 East
STILL in the throes of the holiday Fayette street. Miss Rose Zetzer is
season, the clubwoman's calendar president of the body and Mrs. Frankie
for this week is more occupied with Wilson, chairman of the arrangements
eas and such festive affairs than it is committee.
with round-table meetings and discus-
sions of the serious things in life.
DR. DAVID SEABURY, author, lec-
turer and psycho-analyst, will
Today three teas are on the program, speak on "Character Types and Tem-
One is being given by Mme. Jose Tible-peraments" at 11.30 o'clock Thursday
Machado and Mrs. William Hamilton morning before members of the Wom-
Bayley, of Washington, in honor of an's Club of Roland Park. An informal
alumne of the Maryland College for luncheon will follow his talk. Mrs.
Women at Lutherville and their hus- Gideon N. Stieff is president of the
bands.
club.
In the afternoon at 3.30 o'clock the
Among the many Baltimoreans who juniors will hold the first meeting in
will motor over to the District for the their new clubroom on the second
party is Mrs. Lawrence Plummer floor of the Roland Park clubhouse.
Naylor of the Wyman Park Apart-Following an executive board gather-
ments, president of the Maryland Col-ing, at which Mrs. L. Fauth Ross,
Jege Alumne Association, who will as-president, will preside, there will be
sist the hostesses in receiving the a general business session. An address
guests.
by Miss Ruth Baetjer, director of so-
Madame Machado is the wife of a cial service at Union Memorial Hos-
retired Guatemalan diplomat living in pital, will be next on the program and
Washington, and Mrs. Bayley, who is tea will be served at the close of the
very active in women's club circles afternoon. Miss Virginia Goodrich has
in the District, is the widow of the arranged the program for the juniors'
Postmaster-General of McKinley's ad- January meeting.
ministration. Both are honorary presi-
dents of the Baltimore-Washington R
USSIA will be the subject of dis-
Club of the Maryland College Alum- cussion at the next meeting of
nae Association.
the Woman's Club of Forest Park,
The tea will be given from 4 to 6 which is set for 11 o'clock Wednesday
o'clock at the Hotel Roosevelt.
morning at the Garrison avenue
Members of the Banaca Club and branch of the Enoch Pratt Library.
their families will be entertained at a Miss Laura V. Carmine will give an
Christmas tea today at the home of illustrated talk on "Russian Art," and
their president, Mrs. Frank A. Shal-papers on "Russia Yesterday and To-
lenberger, 3503 North Calvert street. day" will be read by club members.
A program am of instrumental and vo- Mrs. W. W. Tingle, the president of
cal selections has been arranged by the club, will precide.
Mrs. A. E, Lundvall, the club's chair-
man of music, and there will be sing- MEMBERS of the Woman's Twen-
ing of Christmas carols by the chil- tieth Century Club will convene
dren.
at 2.30 o'clock Wednesday afternoon
at the Emerson Hotel, where Mrs.
Macon Woman's College in
BALTIMORE alumne of the Ran-Frank Haggerty will occupy the chair.
Lynchburg, Va., will entertain at tea A SESSION of the woman's board
this afternoon, from 3.30 to 5.30 o'clock, of the Eudowood Hospital is
at the Hamilton Street Club, 16 East scheduled for 11.30 o'cblock Friday
Hamilton street. The guests of honor morning in the tearoom of a depart-
will be local students of the college ment store at Lexington and Howard
who are home for the Christmas streets. Mrs. Mallory Taylor is head
holidays.
of the organization.
THE Arundell Club will hold its UNEMPLOYMENT
JNEMPLOYMENT insurance, an old
New Year's tea on Tuesday after- age security system, ratification of
noon, when husbands and friends of the Child Labor Amendment, jury
the members will be welcomed in the service for women, additional police-
clubrooms on North Charles street. women for Baltimore City and changes
Mrs. M. Alvin Long is president of the in the election laws to provide per-
club.
manent registration for Baltimore City
Mrs. George Hax is reminding the and a shorter and simpler ballot in
members that layettes are badly need-the future, are among the legislative
ed by the Red Cross and is urging all measures to be discussed Thursday
those who have time in their busy days afternoon at a meeting of the Legisla-
for some welfare sewing to include tive Clearing House, to be held at
this piece of charitable work in their 2.30 o'clock in the rooms of the Wom-
daily schedules. Materials, already cuten's Civic League, 113 West Mulberry
for dresses, sacks and other infantile street.
garments may be obtained from her. Presidents and legislative chairmen
of the various organizations affiliated
A
NEW YEAR'S reception is on the with the Clearing House have been
Woman's City Club calendar for asked to attend.
the first day of 1935. Mrs. George Hal- Other measures to be discussed in-
sey, chairman of the house committee, clude opposition to compulsory mili-
will receive the guests from 4 to 6 tary training in State-aided schools,
o'clock. Members of the club and their colleges and universities, a step in-
friends have been invited.
dorsed by the Baltimore section, Na-
The League for Peace and Freedom
Under the direction of Miss Mary tional Council of Jewish Women, and
Hall Lee, chairman of membership, the Maryland branch, Women's Inter-
the Woman's City Club is campaigıt- national League for Peace and Free-
ing for 190 new members by March 1. dom. The Jewish women are also urg-
Prizes are the incentive offered those ing changes in the workmen's com-
who secure the greatest number of pensation act.
recruits.
Mrs. Omar Pancoast, vice-president is recommending an act to help pre-
of the club, has been acting president vent lynching. Alumne of the Eastern
during the absence in Florida of Mrs. High School are advocating additional
G. Ridgely Sappington, the club pres-funds "to provide adequate and proper
ident. Mrs. Sappington is expected to school facilities for girls of senior
return from Palm Beach this weck. high school age in East, Northeast and
The Little Studio Group in the Southeast Baltimore" and the Wom-
Woman's City Club has hung an ex-en's Civic League is recommending
hibit in the small committee room on State maintenance and control of
the first floor of the clubhouse on Cheltenham, the colored boys' school
Mount Vernon Place. The display, of reformation.
which will be changed monthly, will The Civic League is also urging
include examples of "Art Through elimination of the discrimination
the Ages."
against women in the "specified
to provide Baltimore city with "a more
DR. ELLA LONN, a member of the grounds for divorce in Maryland, acts
faculty of Goucher College,
will address the Friday luncheon just and equitable share of all State
meeting of the Woman's City Club, income, from whatever source de-
She will discuss her book, "Desertion commissions whose duties can be more
During the Civil War." The talk has
rived," and abolition of all boards and
cconomically and efficiently performed
through departments having similar
Junctions.
MORE fundamental adjustment
of the inequalities in the present
"A
been arranged by Mrs. William M.
Baker, chairman of the library com-
mittee. Cards and tea will follow.
MISS MISS MARY MCCULLOCH, re-
search worker at the Harriet State taxing system" and the creation
Lane Dispensary of the Johns Hopkins of State departments of labor and wel-
Hospital, will speak on "The Colored fare are among the recommendations
Epileptic Feeble-minded Child" at of the Maryland League of Women
the Wednesday round-table meeting Voters, which is also advocating ap-
of the Baltimore League of Women propriations for the administrative
Voters. The meeting will be held at and research work of the State Plan-
12.30 o'clock in a downtown tea room Miss Schoolfield is president
of the junior branch of the
Woman's Club of Mount
Washington, which is now
planning its program for 1935
ning Commission and for a study of
local government in Maryland by a
State department or commission.
These measures will be presented
for action to the General Assembly of
Maryland at its January session.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.