An Anne Arundel Assessment
That Is Worse Than Inequitable
The fantastic property assessments in
Anne Arundel county have now been
brought officially to the attention of the
Board of Public Works, the State govern-
ment's top-ranking administrative agency.
The board was offered a 74-acre tract in the
Curtis Bay section for $93,000. The board
considered the offer at its meeting Wednes-
day. Board members were told that the prop-
erty was assessed at $6.865, or about seven
per cent of the proposed sales price.
That is the worst assessment case to be
reported out of Anne Arundel county. Prop-
erties are assessed for the purpose of im-
posing taxes to support the State and local
governments. They are supposed by law to
be assessed at market value without looking
to forced sales. Properties in Anne Arundel
county have been grossly underassessed.
That is another way of saying that property
owners in Anne Arundel county have been
escaping their proper share in financing the
cost of the State government.
And recent assessment cases have shown
that there are great inequities among assess-
ments within Anne Arundel county. That
is another way of saying that the cost of
financing the county government has been
falling unfairly on the shoulders of the prop-
erty owners-some have been paying far
less than they should have paid.
In regard to the unbelievably inequitable
assessment case brought to the attention of
the members of the Board of Public Works,
it is worth noting that the board members
took no action, formal or otherwise, about
the assessment. It is true that they rejected
the property offer; but they did so because
they did not think the property would be a
proper site for a new Cheltenham School
for Boys.
The failure to take action here can be
excused only on one ground. Efforts are
being made to give Anne Arundel county a
sound assessment roll. Those efforts are pro-
ducing results. Apparently the members of
the board believe that conditions in Anne
Arundel county will be corrected in full. If
that be true, it is good news.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.