MAYOR PAINTED
AS FIGUREHEAD
OF ROBERTSON
Contractor's
Machine
Rules Party In City,
Lane Charges
FOES' ISSUES WEAK,
GOV. RITCHIE SAYS
Inside Ring Of Minor
Employes Got Road
Funds, He Asserts
By LOUIS J. O'DONNELL
As Governor Ritchie last night re-
viewed, and answered issues raised by
his opponent in this campaign, W.
Preston Lane, Jr., candidate for At-
torney-General, struck out at the Re-
publican organization and pictured
Mayor Broening as the figurehead of a
well-concealed political machine domi-
nated by John L. "Lum" Robertson.
Mr. Robertson was described by
Mr. Lane as "a contractor who has
been interested in city contracts for
twenty-five years." The speaker went
on to identify him also as head of
the American Street Paving Company
and owner of the Hudson Building
Supply Company. In the latter.com-
pany "Mayor Broening's own son and
the son of Harry C. Jones, member of
the Port Development Commission,
have served as officers," he continued.
Speak At Lithuanian Hall
The Governor and Mr. Lane made
their addresses at Lithuanian Hall,
which was the second place of assembly
they visited last night. The other was
an open-air meeting in Northeast Bal-
timore.
In launching his attack, Mr, Lane
declared that the most amusing fen-
ture of the campaign "has been the
solemn and pious wails of Mayor
Broening and David A. Robb, candi-
date for Attorney-General, about Gov-
ernor Ritchie's supposed political ma-
chine.
Challenges Mayor
He then challenged the Mayor to
point to anyone "in what he calls the
Ritchie machine who can be compared
to Lum Robertson, the city contractor,
who is the present boss of the Repub-
lican party in Baltimore.
"Some of you will say, 'I never heard
of Lum Robertson before," Mr. Lane
asserted.
• "But that's no surprise. The Re-
:
(Continued on Page 5, Column 1)
ROBERTSON RULES
IN CITY, SAYS LANE
land coal which it is practicable for started a comprehensive study of the
them to use, and this is about 70 per almshouse situation in every county of
cent., and the institutions and depart. the State and of the most practical and
ments of Baltimore city under Mayor humane method to deal with the ques
Broening have contracted for no Mary tion. We will be ready to deal with it
land coal at all.
effectively when the 1031 Legislature
meets. The Mayor is a little late in
Mayor Is Figurehead Of "Their contracts for the next year bringing this forward as an issue.
Machine, Democratic
Foe Charges
called for nearly 50,000 tons of coal "Finally, the Mayor continually
and Mayor Broening has ordered all harps on the necessity of rotation in
of this from Pennsylvania. Mayor office. The fact is that the constitu-
Broening is not interested in Mary-tional provisions which formerly pre-
land coal. If he was, he would have vented the Governor from succeeding
RITCHIE JEERS ISSUES bought some for the city government. himself were all wiped out in 1861, so
Inside Ring Of Minor Employes
Got Road Funds And Penalty,
Governor Says
By LOUIS J. O'DONNELL
(Continued from Page 22)
and he cannot alter the fact that he that there is now no governmental
has not by his purchase the other das
of 500 tons of Maryland coal for
$375."
Cites Inheritance Tax
policy of any kind against this.
"The question is simply one for
the people to decide. It is difficult,
however, to take Mayor Broening
Maryland passed an inheritance tax seriously on this point. He has as-
law at the first session of the Legis-pired for and held public office much
lature, 1929, after the constitutionality too long himself to have any real
of the Federal statute was sustained convictions about the advisability of
by the Supreme Court in March, 1928, rotation in office,
publicans are very careful to keep the Governor said in denial of the
Lum Robertson in the background and Mayor's charge that the State lost
Lum is very careful to keep himself out $1,250,000 by not passing it sooner.
of sight for some good reasons of his
own.
Says He Wants To Boss State
"The City Hall boys know who
Lum is; they know who to go to
when they want a favor from the
hands of the Republican administra-
tion. They go to Lum when they want
some money to finance a campaign. He
"Twenty-six States have never
passed any State laws on the sub-
ject," the Governor declared, "and it
would be more appropriate for Mayor
Broening to criticize the Governors of
those States than to criticize the Gor-
ernor of this State which has passed
one."
The Governor then declared that he
did not wonder that Mayor Broening
is spending it generously now to put did not deliver a speech he had pre-
Mayor Broening in the State House
so that he can be the Republican boss
of Maryland."
pared in criticism of the plans of the
Maryland Drought Commission. The
Mayor afterward released it as a state-
ment.
Plan Praised, He Says
"On the day he had planned to criti-
The Republican campaign could be
called "Behind the Scenes" if it were
a stage production, the speaker added,
"because Lum Robertson stays in the
background and puts up to the front cize the Maryland Drought Commis-
young Edward Hargest, the 30-year. sion," the Governor asserted, "the seс-
old lawyer who was catapulted to the retary of the Federal Drought Com-
political front so rapidly that he has mission issued a public statement
not yet overcome his own amazement." praising it."
Cheltenham Reformatory, which the
Says He Advises Candidates Mayor has declared is not a proper
The speaker then asserted that every place for colored juvenile delinquents
public statement released by Mr. Har- and charges the State government with
gest first is approved by Mr. Robert- responsibility for it, the Governor ex-
son and that "Mayor Broening may plained, is not a State institution. It
have plans of his own, but before he is managed, he said, by a board of six-
makes them public Lum Robertson teen directors, on which the State has
looks them over and tells the Mayor two representatives and the city of
how he feels about them.
Baltimore a like number.
"Lum Robertson became a factor in With regard to the Republican
Maryland politics by helping to elect charge of an increase in the cost of
Mayor Broening for the second time State government, the Governor as-
to the City Hall," Mr. Lane declared. serted that the cost of everything
"But back in the administration of
Mayor Mahool the Board of Awards
ruled that neither Lum Robertson nor
any company with which he was con-
nected could bid on city contracts."
Charges Robertson A Favorite
"That was after two members of
the Board of Commissioners for Open-
ing Streets had been dismissed and
has risen in the last ten years and
that the State is serving the people
more broadly now than it was then.
Baltimore Cost Cited
"Mayor. Broening does not suggest
any State activities which he thinks
might be cut down to reduce expenses,"
the Governor declared.
indicted for accepting bribes in con- "He has, moreover, shown no in-
nection with the preparation of speci- clination to reduce the expenses of
fications for certain highway ma-government in Baltimore city," he
terials. Again in Mayor Preston's ad-
added.
ministration Lum Robertson found During the first Broening adminis-
his name on the blacklist at the City tration, he declared, appropriations
Hall, but he has been a great favorite from the general tax levy increased
around the City Hall in the last four $9,187,000 and the tax rate increased
years.
from $2.01 to $2.97.
"Talking of machines-this Robert- "That was the rate Mr. Broening
son machine is certainly a good one. handed over to Mayor Jackson with a
Ask Senator Phillips Lee Golds- deficit of over $1,000,000," the Gov-
borough and Galen L. Tait, chairman ernor said, "and it was that rate
of the State Central Committee. They which the latter reduced to $2.39.
can testify that Lum's machine is a Mayor Broening has cut this 4 cents
good one and it is no secret that more, but appropriations from the gen-
neither of these gentlemen wanted eral tax levy have increased $6,274,-
Mayor Broening as the Republican 000."
party's Gubernatorial candidate, nor
did they want Lum Robertson sitting
on the throne at Annapolis.
Ask Robb, He Says
"Go to Davy Robb and ask him pri-
vately about this Robertson machine.
He wanted the Republican nomination
for Governor, but the Robertson ma-
chine rolled him flat. He got up with
his hat in his hand and then got Lum
to let him run for Attorney-General.
"Anyone who knows the City Hall
machine is aware that Lum Robertson
is the boy on the driver's seat, with
the Mayor and Eddie Hargest taking
orders from him.
Explains Bridge Stand
No Governor mindful of his respon-
sibilities could undertake a project
like a bay bridge at $12,000,000 until
all the engineering data, cost data
and financial data were in hand, Mr.
Ritchie said.
"There has not been time to assem-
ble all this necessary information, al-
though a thoroughly competent com-
mission is at work upon it," the Gov-
ernor continued.
"Mayor Broening says there are not
enough Republicans on the boards and
commissions which administer the State
government. Wherever the law pro-
vides for minority representatives,
there is, of course, a Republican on
the board. I have also appointed Re-
"There is a Ritchie machine-if you
wish to call it that-but it is certainly publicans in many cases where the law
not subject to the orders of a Lum does not call for minority representa-
Robertson. Governor Ritchie is his own tion.
boss and his machine is composed of
the big majority of the people of this
State who want good government and
who believe in and work for their
leader because he is honest, courageous,
clean and able, and not because they
expect to make some money out of
politics."
Calls Issues Weak
Touches Old-Age Pensions
"The Mayor declares that if elected
he would establish a system of old-age
pensions. This is one of the most vital
problems of the future of this country,
but it cannot be settled in quite as
casual a manner as the Mayor seems to
think. However, the Mayor has never
shown any interest in old-age pensions
until this campaign. The Legislature of
1927 passed an act authorizing the city
In entering his discussion of the is
sues raised by the Republicans during
the campaign, the Governor declared
that "their case must be a mighty poor of Baltimore to establish such a system,
one when these are the only things they but Mayor Broening never took suffi-
have been able to bring forward after cient interest either to establish such
✔rking for eleven years to find things a system, as he could have done at any
tcriticize."
time, or even to study the subject.
They say that some of the State "The Mayor also says that he would
reads funds were stolen," he said. abolish all the county almshouses. This
"Yes, in the expenditure of millions is a matter, too, which cannot be dis-
of dollars on what is recognized as posed of in such an offhand way, but
one of the finest highway systems in two years ago the State government
the country; the same thing has hap-
pened innumerable times in private
business."
。
"An inside ring of subordinate em-
ployes conspired together and stole
some of the funds, Mr. Ritchie con-
tinued, but as soon as the shortage
was discovered the matter was made
public and the proper legal procedure
entered.
Commission Probe Cited
"A commission composed of three
Republicans and one Democrat inves-
tigated every phase of the affair and
showed beyond question that no officers
of the State were either involved or
responsible, but that the responsibility
was confined to the subordinate em-
ployes themselves," the Governor con-
tinued,
"Every single culprit concerned in
the case was found guilty and sen-
tenced to prison, and all of them are
either in prison now or are out only
because their terms have expired," he
added.
"The Republican party can get no
comfort out of the effective way in
which the situation was handled."
Scores Coal Purchase
The purchase by the city recently of
500 tons of coal from a Western
Maryland company was branded by
the Governor as "obviously a purely
political purchase."
"The fact is," he said, "Maryland
State institutions do use all the Mary-