MORE ROOM
NEEDED FOR
DELINQUENTS
State Board To Obtain
Additional Facilities For
Feeble Minded
Immediate steps to obtain
additional facilities for feeble-
minded juvenile delinquents are to
be taken by the advisory committee
of the State Board of Mental
Hygiene, it was announced yester-
day by Dr. George H. Preston,
Commissioner of Mental Hygiene,
At the same time, the committee
decided against allowing
"active, definitely delinquent and
frequently quite rough" boys to be
sent in the future to Crownsville,
the institution for feeble-minded
Negro boys and girls, even if it
were possible to find room for them
in that overcrowded institution.

Existing Situation
any
Therefore, until additional facili-
ties are found or constructed for
the care and detention of mental
defectives, the following situation
exists:
The Juvenile Court turns over
feeble-minded delinquents, after
examination by a court psychiatrist,
to the State Board of Mental
Hygiene.
The State Board of Mental
Hygiene has only Crownsville, for
Negro boys and girls, which has no
room to admit anyone at present.
and which will not admit delin-
quent types in the future, and Rose-
wood, for white boys and girls,
which is crowded beyond capacity,
so that the only places feeble-
minded children could be com-
mitted by the board would be the
four State correctional institutions
under the State Department of
Public Welfare.
But the State Department of Wel-
fare three months ago inaugurated
a policy under which no additional
feeble-minded juveniles may be
admitted to the four correctional
institutions.

Three Recommendations.
In an effort to break this im.
passe, the advisory committee,
which includes representatives of
the Juvenile Court, the State De-
partment of Public Welfare, the
municipal Department of Welfare
and other agencies, has made three
recommendations:
That the possibility of obtain-
ing State funds to construct, re-
construct, remodel and operate
additional institutional facilities
be invesigated.
That the investigationy be
undertaken to discover whether
there are in the State any un-
used institutional facilities which
might be made suitable for the
care of feeble-minded colored
boys, committed by the courts
because of misbehavior.
That the possibility of con-
structing additional, temporary
buildings at Cheltenham to care
for about 75 court-committed,
feeble-minded boys and the
operation of these buildings as
a separate unit within Chelten-
ham-be given consideration,

Proposal Favored
The advisory committee favors
adoption of the last-named pro-
posal for two reasons, that it is in
line with an act passed at the last
session of the General Assembly
which directed the construction of
a new institution for non-feeble-
minded, delinquent colored boys,
and the conversion of Cheltenham
into an institution for feeble mind-
ed delinquent boys; and because
of the inadvisability of associating
any type of delinquent children
with the highly suggestable and
relatively helpless feeble-minded
children of the type cared for at
Crownsville.
To illustrate the desperate need
for greater facilities, Dr. Preston
asserted that at least 500 beds are
needed at Crownsville, rather than
the 190 available at present, to care
for feeble-minded Negro children,
excluding defectives of the definite
delinquent type.
Nearly all of the inmates at
Crownsville, he said, are mild in-
offensive children who should not
be exposed to the example of
fractious defectives, committed for
wrongdoing.

Rosewood Needs 300 More Beds
At least 300 more beds are
needed in addition to the 1,200 at
Rosewood to care for feeble-
minded white boys and girls, Dr.
Preston said.
The proposals suggested yester-
day did not touch on the current
situation as concerns non-feeble-
minded delinquents, both white
and colored, and the so-called one to the Maryland Training dren's Society have undertaken an
neglected children of both races, School for Colored Girls.
for whom there are no available Three of the six committed to
facilities in the State operated in- Cheltenham were making their
stitutions and little, if any, room third appearance together in Juve-
in private institutions, a situation nile Court within four weeks on
which Judge Charles Moylan, of different sets of charges. All three
the Juvenile Court, said is daily were on probation when brought
. becoming more acute.
Returned To Cheltenham
in yesterday for a series of four
nighttime burglaries. Their ages
were 11, 12 and 14, respectively.
Judge Moylan cited as an exam- The colored girl, aged 12, had set
ple of current conditions an inci- fire to her home several times be
dent which occurred last week. cause she did not like her aunt,
Authorities at Cheltenham pa- who was substituting for the
roled one of the 50-odd mental de- mother, who is in prison.
fectives at the institution under a The fourth boy sent to Chelten.
policy of making space available ham, aged 15, had, with two older
through paroles, when feasible. boys, held up a man with a knife
Within a few days, the parolee was and robbed him of money and cig-
back before the Juvenile Court on arettes.
a very serious charge. Judge Moy-
Jan called Cheltenham and asked Two Boys Were On Probation
if they wanted the boy back. The The two other boys turned, over
reply was in the negative, and the to Cheltenham, 14 and 15 years, re-
judge was advised to turn the boy spectively, had beaten and kicked
over to the State Board of Mental another boy, who was not known
Hygiene. The latter body then into them nor was there any ap
formed the judge that it had no parent motive. Both were on pros
place for the boy and could not bation at the time.
accept him. Judge Moylan flatly One of the two boys committed
stated that the boy should not be to St. Mary's was on parole from
turned loose on the community and that institution. He had obtained a
the final result was that he was re- job in a meat store at $21 a week.
turned to Cheltenham.
Between November 19 and January
Judge Moylan asserted that 29 he stole $544 from the store.
neither he nor the staff of the He is '15.
Juvenile Court is "institution The other boy, also 15, was
minded" and said that of the 1,339 charged with stealing two auto-
boys and girls adjudged delin: mobiles and a set of license tags.
quents in the seven months ending He previously had spent between
December 31 only 170 had been one and two years in the. Maryland
committed to institutions.
Pranks Not Delinquency
School for Boys.
Brother And Sister, 7. And 8.
Fully 88 per cent. of those found The outstanding case of the day,
guilty of delinquency were re- however, was that of a brother and
leased or placed on probation, the sister, white, aged 7 and 8 years,
judge said, adding that in his court respectively.
childish pranks and such offenses On December 11 they broke into
as breaking a window are not con- a restaurant about 2 A. M., wrecked
sidered delinquency.
five music machines and stole the
Just yesterday Judge Moylan nickels.
was obliged to commit nine juve- On January 22, they discovered a
niles, three of them for their mi parked police car and stole from it
nority and six of them temporarily, a loaded riot gun.
pending study of their backgrounds On January 25 they broke into a
and psychiatric examination.
house in the 200 block of Edmond-
Although the correctional insti- son ave. and stole a small amount
tutions for boys, except St. Mary's of money.
Industrial School, a privately op-
erated school, are crowded beyond
Set Fire To House
capacity, the institutions still are On January 29 they set fire to a
accepting his commitments, Judge house in the 500 block of North
Moylan said.,
Monroe st.
Since these children are under
St. Mary's, as of yesterday, had
room for 30 more boys, but the 12 they cannot be placed in any of
school accepts only those boys it the institutions.. They were re-
feels can be helped and may re- leased in the care of their, parents,
ject any commitment.
Investigation of the case.
who testified that on the nights of
the depredations the children had
been put to bed as usual, but ap-
Make Third Appearance
parently had stolen out of the
Of the nine delinquents com- house while the parents slept.
mitted yesterday two were sent to Meanwhile, the Family and Chil-
St. Mary's, six to Cheltenham and