REV. NATHAN THOMPSON DEAD
Widely Known
Congregational
Minister And Educator.
Laurel, Md.. July 3.-The Rev. Na-
than Thompson, 79 years old, died yes-
terday at the Lindens, his home here,
after a 9-day illness of cerebral hem-
orrhage. Пе was Π native of New
Braintree, Mass.. and graduated from
Williston Seminary in 1851. Amherst
College in 1861, and Andover Theologi-
cal Seminary in 1865.
For 10 years he was pastor of the
First Congregational Church, in Boul-
der, Colo.. during which time he was
a member of the board of trustees of
Colorado State University and was last
president of the board under territorial
government. Later he was minister
in Boxboro, Mass., and principal of
Lawrence Academy, Groton, Mass., and
Elgin Academy. Elgin, Ill. He was also
superintendent of the House of Re-
formation, Cheltenham, Md.
He was a member of the Classical
Club of Baltimore and the Phi Beta
Kappa Association of the District of
Columbia. For the last 15 years be
has made him home in Laurel, Md. He
leaves a widow and two daughters. The
funeral will be held tomorrow morn-
ing. The body will be cremated at
Loudon Park and the ashes buried in
New Braintree. Mass.
VIRGINIA FARMERS BLAMED
Withdrawal of Scouts Charged To
Lack Of Appreciation,
Richmond, Va., July 3.- The Federal
Government has asked for an investiga-
tion of the withdrawal of Boy Scouts
from the Virginia potato fields, it was
stated here yesterday. Major Allan
Potts, who visited the Eastern Shore
last werk under orders from Major-Gen-
eral Bell, of the Eastern Department of
epartment
the United States Army, conferred with
Governor Stuart preliminary to sub-
mitting his report.
Charles L. Weaver, scout executive
of Richmond, yesterday issued a state-
ment in which he laid the entire blame
for the collapse of the expeditionary
force of scouts to save the potato crops
on the Eastern Shore on the shoulders
of the shore farmers. He alleged that
the farmers took "advantage of a pure-
ly patriotic move" and had shown an
"utter lack of appreciation and tangible
co-operation" with the scouts who had
come to help them harvest their four-
million barrel crop.
Withdrawal of the scouts was
ascribed to the fact that the truckers
had forced them to remain idle without
pay for a week, and had not paid them
enough to meet expenses
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.