ANDERSON THE STAR
Makes The Best Leap In Test Held
At Dunham Latin School.
CITY WILL HOLD MEET TODAY
Central Y. M. C. A. Gym Will Be
Used By The Athletes-Preparing
For The Track Season.
By JESSE A. LINTHICUM.
Jack Anderson, a member of the
sixth period, was the star in the weekly
test held yesterday afternoon by the
Dunham Latin Schoolin the gymnasium,
on Brevard street. Professor Buerlein
sent his athletes through the standing
higa jump event and Anderson made
the longest leap, which was 4 feet 10
inches.
Anderson's showing puts him in a
position to win the trophy offered to
the athlete scoring the greatest number
of points. He had nine previous to yes-
terday and was awarded five more.
Somerset Fitchett still holds the lead,
although he broke his fine winning
streak yesterday. Previous to the stand-
ing high jump test, Fitchett had gained
five points in every event. Yesterday
he finished third and was awarded
three points. In six meets held so far
he has scored 28 points out of a pos-
sible 30.
Some fine marks were made in res-
terday's test. The boys are doing bet-
ter each week, and Professor Buerlein
declares more school records are liable
to go when they are called together Jan-
uary 15 for the second monthly meet.
R. Diggs captured first place in the
third period, L. Gwyn led the athletes
in the fourth, F. Primrose in the fifth,
P. Dallom in the eighth and R. Scar-
lett in the ninth. The summary:
Third Period-R. Diggs. 5 points; Wil-
liam Thomsen, 4; G. Hodel, 3: E. Din-
ning. 2, and S. Shriver. 1.
Fourth Period-L. Gwyn, 5 points; J.
Paca, 4; S. Fitchett, 3; J. Kirwan, 2,
and E. King, 1.
Fifth Period-F. Primrose, 5 points;
R. Anderson, 4; W. Shackleford, 3; R.
Ohrenshall, 2, and L. Hodel, 1.
Sixth Period-J. Anderson, 5 points;
P. Beal, 4; E. Mowbray, 3: A. Owens, 2,
and S. Gibson, 1.
Eighth Period-P. Dallom, 5 points:
T. Cockey, 4; F. Ohrenshall, 3; W. Per-
kins, 2, and P. Williams, 1.
Ninth Period-R. Scarlett, 5 points:
E. Bennett, 4; G. Hamill, 3; A. Hund-
ley, 2, and A. Wehr, 1.
City College will stage its first weekly
meet this afternoon in the Central
Young Men's Christian Association gym-
nasium.
It has been decided to have some of
the events held every Thursday in Cen-
tral's gym and the remaining ones in
the schoolyard on North Howard street.
Professor Lorett has announced the fol-
lowing events for today: 25-yard dash,
1,000-yard run and 880-vard walk. To-
morrow the lung test and pole climb for
freshmen will be held.
The committee in charge of the week-
ly meets consists of Manager Lumpkin,
Captain Taylor and Donald Cronin.
City is looking for one of the most
successful seasons experienced at the
North Howard street institution for sev-
eral years. The squad numbers 30 men.
Donald Cronin, of last year's stars, has
joined the squad. Cronin did not report
at the beginning of the season. He won
first place last season and was award-
ed a fine trophy.
Although the Christmas holidays in-
terfered with the training, Professor Lo-
rett has the team in pretty good trim.
They were sent through a stiff practice
Tuesday, and some fast time is expect-
ed in the events carded for today. The
squad is made up of boys between the
ages of 13 and 19 years and of all weights.
from the 90-pounders to those around
the 165-pound mark.
Manager Lumpkin announced yester-
day that he has completed arrangements
with the Central Young Men's Christian
Association officials for a dual track and
field meet in Central's gymnasium Feb-
ruary 5. This will get the Orange and
Black in shape for the important meets
scheduled to be held next month.
City expects to enter all of the big
events. The relay team will meet Poly-
technic at the Fifth Regiment-Johns
Hopkins games at the armory February
20 and City has decided to send its share
to the George Washington games in
Washington February 13. Much inter-
est is being taken in the big interscho-
lastic track meet planned by the Tome
School officials at Port Deposit. The
collegians will have their full strength
in that event.
Points will be awarded in the weekly
track meets. Ten prizes will be given
at the end of the season, the highest
man getting a gold medal, the second
a silver and each of the next eight a
bronze. An athlete who will bear watch-
ing is Long, the Philadelphia boy, who
starred at Cheltenham High School.
Among last season's men who are looked
upon as likely contenders for first place
are Waples, Taylor, Lumpkin, Cronin,
Cohn and Lyons. Waples is a high
jumper, Lumpkin runs in the 440 and
also is a distance man, Taylor and
Lyons are distance runners and Cronin
performs in the dashes.
City College's basketball team will
play the Loyola High School five to-
morrow afternoon in the former's gym-
nasium. City was put through a hard
workout yesterday and Capt. Dick Tall
is looking for a victory.
These teams appear evenly matched
and basketball fans anticipate a close
contest. Both teams have had a long
rest and the game is the first to be
played by each team this season. City's
quintet displayed fine form before the
holidays, Park School falling easy prey
by a comfortable score.
One of the best games of the season is
expected tomorrow afternoon at the
Friends School gymnasium, when the
Quakers meet the Polytechnic basket-
ball team. The Quakers have a strong
squad, having defeated every team
played this season. While Polv has not
been so fortunate, Manager Broadbelt
has rounded out a well-balanced quint
and declares his team will make a better
showing in the remaining contests.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.