CHELTENHAM IS PRAISED
Russell Sage Inspectors Call It
Among The Best.
"One of the best in the country," was
the opinion after the investigation of the
House of Reformation for Colored Boys at
Cheltenham, Md., yesterday by inspectors
of the Russell Sage Foundation, New York.
The inspectors are Miss Florence L. Latti-
more and Miss Ralph, of New York, and
they made the trip with Lieut. Joseph J.
Janney, secretary of the foundation for
Baltimore, and several members of the
board of managers of the institution.
This institution, which is said to rank
with the best in the country and far above
many others in the State, had 30T colored
boys when the inspectors arrived. The
superintendent and the entire force of
teachers, foremen and assistant superin-
tendents are white, except two colored
men who have minor positions. Superin-
tendent J. B. Tyles conducted the visitors
through the five schools and over the farms
of the institution. Gen. Thomas J. Shryock
is president of the board of managers.
CARDS FOR COLLEGE.
About 200 players took part Monday
night in a card party held under the aus-
pices of the alumne of Mount St. Agnes'
College, Mount Washington, at the Cath-
olic Club, 408 North Charles street. The
proceeds of the affair will be added to a
fund being collected to establish a per-
petual scholarship at the college. Those
who directed the arrangements for the
party were:
Mrs.-
Frank P. Scrivener,
Robert L. Porter,
N. Charles Burke,
John J. Roach,
Misses-
Alma Thomas,
Hammond J. Dugan,
Daniel J. Leonard,
Thomas H. Hooper.
Mary Regina Possy.
Oral Hygiene Work Begun.
The work of the Oral Hygiene Council
of Maryland in the public schools began
yesterday at School No. 1, Greene and
Fayette streets, when Dr. B. Holly Smith
and Dr. T. O. Heatwole completed the in-
stallation of a dental clinic. From 1.30
o'clock to 3.30 o'clock each day there will
be two volunteer dentists on hand to ex-
amine the mouths of the children. The
work will not interfere with the regular
practice of dentistry, as the work of the
clinic will be chictly advisory.
Spoke Before Florists.
Mr. Wallace Pierson, a well-known for-
ist of Cromwell, Conn., gave an interesting
talk on roses Monday night before a large-
ly attended meeting of the Florists' Club,
of Baltimore. He brought with him for
distribution among the florists 200 samples
of a new variety of rose raised on his place
this season.
The Baltimore florists were very much
Interested in the description given by Mr.
Pierson of his extensive business. He has
1,000,000 square feet of glass and his es-
tablishment covers about 18 acres.