A SurrOSED CLUE TO CHARLEY ROSS.- A
man giving the name of Sam Benners was ar-
rested in Ilarrisburg. Pa., a few days since, and
taken to Philadelphia, supposed to have been
engaged with the Mosher gang in the abduction
of Charley Ross. He said at first that he knew
nothing of the case, but afterwards admitted
that he had known Mosher, but denied having
any knowledge of the missing boy. At another
heering Beuners said Charley Ross was in Pean-
sylvaja and had never been out of it. That he
was not many miles from Philadelphia, and that
he had seen him not longer than three weeks
ago. Where the boy is Benuers will not say,
but the officers who made the arrest and those
who have been on the lookout for the last forty
days think that the boy is probably in Wrights-
ville or in the neighborhood of Lancaster or
Columbia, as in going to and fro between Har-
risburg and Philadelphia Benners always
stopped at these places. - Philadelphia Timis.
JAY COOKE'S DESERTED MANSION.-The valn-
able property known as Ogontz, late the resi-
dence of Jay Cooke, in Cheltenhsin township,
Montgomery county, Pa., comprising 214 acres,
is still offered for sale by the assignees. Tne
mansion house and other buildings are in good
condition, and a millionsire might make lum-
self almost as happy there as if he were a poor
mau. The property would be cheap enough at
$150,000 to a man who could afford to live in it.
The number of men in Philadelphia who could
pay for it and keep it running can be couuted
on one's fingers. The estate is more beautiful
now than when Mr. Cooke left it, for it is older,
more mellow, and riper than it was. The air of
newness is worn off, the trees are better grown,
the chestnuts are in the prime of their glory at
this season, and with every fitful breeze the
nuts rain down upon the grass beneath.
SUCCESS OF THE BLASTING AT HELL GATE.-
The survey of the new bottom at Hell Gate,
which bas been in progress since the blast, was
completed on Saturday. The survey shows a
depth of not less than ten feet below mean low
water in any one spot, save one near the shore,
at a point where the reef before the blast used to
project two and one-half feet above low water.
Even that is probably buta small heap of stones,
which will easily be removed by dredging. The
Bridgeport stes steamer Americus on Saturday after-
noon rau close in shore over the site of the old
cofterdam. Work on the Flood rock is progress-
ing finely, though only a small force of men is
employed there as yet. On Wednesday last a
large portion of the roof of the main heading fell
in, but fortunately nobody was standing be-
neath it.
Conductors on a Boston street railroad stole
a barrel of punched tickets and turned them in
for cash fares, thus stealing several thousand
| dollars.