Is A Convict Of 26
A Juvenile Delinquent?
Most people agree that there is a bad
gap in the State correctional system.
Adult offenders go to the Penitentiary or
the House of Correction. Juvenile of-
fenders go to the Maryland Training
School or to Cheltenham. But there
exists an in-between group of offenders
who properly belong neither in a school
for juvenile delinquents nor in an adult
prison. These difficult cases have a dis-
ruptive influence in juvenile institu-
tions; yet, obviously, throwing them
with adult convicts is very bad practice.
| Judge Emory Niles put his finger on
'this weakness last January when he
convicted two boys, aged 14 and 15, of
safebreaking. At the time he described
as a "disgraceful thing the tragic
lack of proper facilities in Maryland for
taking care of boys who are not suited
for commitment to the Maryland Train-
ing School."
...
An in-between institution of the
needed kind was authorized by the Gen-
eral Assembly in 1943. And now Gover-
nor O'Conor has come forward with a
suggestion that the present State penal
farm at Roxbury be made over for the
.purpose.
The penal farm is well suited to the
purpose; and, so far as the institution
itself is concerned, the Governor's sug.
gestion is a good one.
But there seems to be a good deal of
confusion about the age composition of
the in-between group.
...
The legal authorization is for an in-
stitution "for incorrigible offenders
between the ages of 16 and 20." Yet the
case on which Judge Niles made his pro-
nouncement dealt with two boys áged
14 and 15. Clearly, these two boys be-
long in the group. But the law appar-
ently excludes them.
Just to complicate things further, the
Governor in his statement now speaks
of offenders "between the ages of 16
and 26." Thus the Governor has ven.
tured to enlarge the age group---but in
the wrong direction. A convicted crimi-
nal aged 26 is no "in-between." He is an
adult criminal, and the place for him
is not in an in-between group but with
other adult criminals.
Before we go much further, the Gen-
eral Assembly may well reconsider the
enlargement of the in-between age
group-but with a view to enlarging it
downward, not upward. A 14-year-old
safecracker clearly belongs in it. But
not a safecracker of 26.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.