THAT AX IS STILL ALOOF
Department Heads Rest Easily; Not
So Subordinates.
WORRIED FACES AT CITY HALL
"Hold-Overs" Fear Changes will
Come Soon-Probation Period Of
Six Months Over.
Now Sure Of Their Place.
City Engineer H. Kent McCay.
City Solicitor S. S. Field.
Health Commissioner James Bosley.
Building Inspector Clarence E. Stubbs.
City Librarian William F. Coyle.
City Collector Jacob W. Hook.
Superintendent of P'ublic Buildings
George T. Ames.
Lighting Superintendent Robert J.
MeCuen.
Collector of Water Rents and Li-
censes Daniel J. Loden.
Water Engineer Ezra B. Whitman.
Harbor Engineer Oscar F. Lackey.
Commissioner of Street Cleaning
Williato A. Larkins.
President Richard H. Johns, Col.
Israel Rosenfeld and Sydney T.
Manning, of the Fire Board.
The members of the Water Board,
Harbor Board and Jail Board.
The Commissioners of Finance.
Public Bath Commission.
All other unpaid commissions.
No nominations were sent to the Second
Branch of the City Council by Mayor Pres-
ton yesterday afternoon, and department
heads who have been on probation for six
months rested easy, so far as their post-
tlons were concerned, for the first time
since October 21 last, when they received
their commissions.
Several had heard rumors of changes, and
as the six months' probationship of the
charter expires today fear was felt that the
Mayor would send in the names of their
Buccessors yesterday.
All department heads and commissioners
appointed last fall are now secure in their
positions, as the Council has adjourned
until Monday afternoon, April 15. They
cannot be removed, except for cause and
after public trial before the Mayor.
Not So For Subordinates.
Bat the comfortable feeling does not ex-
tend to subordinates who have been "hold-
Ing over" since the beginning of the Pres-
ton administration. These men expect the
ax, and if Democratic Councilmen are to
get what has been promised them the ax
will fall before May 1. It was stated yes-
terday that changes would be made about
the middle of April, now that the Legisla-
ture has adjourned.
j
]
1
1
1
:
1
Land Commissioner John J. Hanson and
State's Attorney William F. Broening were
among Mayor Preston's callers at the City
Hall yesterday morning. As Mr. Hanson is
the chairman of the Republican City Com-
mittee it was suspected that the visit had
something to do with several minority
places the Mayor will have to fill on im-
portant municipal boards within the next
two weeks, including the late William W.
Melutire's position as a Republican ineni-
her of the Sewerage Commission and the
Republican vacancy on the Board of Com-
missioners for Opening Streets.
1
Secrecy was maintained as to the cause
of the presence of the two Republican offi-
cials at the City Hall. After leaving the
Mayor's olice Mr. Hanson called on Collec-
tor of Water Rents and Licenses Loden.
To Succeed Mr. McIntire.
It is believed that Mr. A. Warfield Mon-
roe stands a good chance of succeeding Mr.
McIntire. Mr. Monroe was prominently
backed for the place after the death of Gen.
Peter Leary. Jr., whom Mr. McIntire suc-
ceeded. It was stated at that time that Mr.
Monroe lost out mainly because he was not
a registered voter of the city. He has
Since had his name put on the poll books
and is therefore eligible.
It was intimated at the City Hall that
Mayor Preston, however, might give the
place to former Sheriff Stephen R. Mason.
who has been slated as the successor to
Henry F. New as the minority member of
the Board of Commissioners for Opening
Streets. It is known that the Mayor of-
fered this position to W. Harry Pairo, lead-
er of the Republican city delegation in the
Legislature. Mr. Preston may now take
care of both Mason and Pairo.
A Republican member of the City Coun-
cil called on the Mayor and suggested a
man for the vacancy on the Jail Board, but
Mr. Preston declined to give the matter
consideration. He said he would not be in
a position to make the appointment for two
weeks.
The Mayor is said to feel considerable re-
gret at the fact that the place on the Sew-
erage Commission and the place on the
Board of Commissioners for Opening Streets
must, under the operations of the charter,
go to Republicans. The Sewerage Commis-
slonship pays $1,500 a year, while the other
place pays $1,500 a year.
To Succeed Mr. Rossmann.
Mayor Preston is expected to send to
the Council shortly the names of the suc-
ward Rossmann and of Commissioners
cessor to former School Commissioner Ed-
Delevett and Emmons for reappointment.
He will also reappoint several minor boards
apd managers on the part of the city in a
number of industrial institutions.
Col, A. B. Cunningham is to be reap-
pointed a member of the Appeal Tax
Court, and if Mr. Douglas M. Wylie is not
reappointed a member of the Park Board
the name of his successor will be sent to
the Second Branch.
The main interest in the selection of
managers of the Maryland School for Boys
lles in the case of Gen. Lawrason Riggs,
president of the board. His term as city
manager has expired, along with the terms
of all his colleagues. So far the Mayor
has given no indication of his intention
in the matter. He has declared it to be
his purpose to reappoint Gen. Thomas J.
Shryock and Councilman Harry S. Cum-
mings, colored, as managers of the Colored
House of Reformation at Cheltenham. He
has also declared it to be his intention of
of Supervisors of City Charities, whose
reappointing all the members of the Board
terms have expired.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.