AFFAIRS AT THE STATE CAPITAL..
The Railroad and State Negotiations
-Going for the Judiciary-Orphans'
Court Practices-Appeal Tax Court
and Property Assessments - Mine
Inspector's Report-The Railroad
Case-Miscellaneous Matters, &c.
[Correspondence of the Baltimore Sun.)
ANNAPOLIS, MD., Jan. 28, 1878.
Only the House of Delcrates was in session
to-day, the Senate having held over until to-
morrow from Friday last. Speaker Hohlitzell
cleared his desk of all work. The House passed
nineteen hills, and read sixteen a second time
and four the first time, Dr. Wm. II. Cole acting
both as reading and chief clerk in the absence
(from sickness) of Mr. Kidd.
THE FALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROAD CASE.
In the hearing which is to be riven of the
Baltimore and Ohio railroad case before the
Anance and ways and means committees of the
Legislature on Wednesday next. Mr. John King.
Jr., first vice-president, will represent the rail-
road company, the present effort to adjust the
company's mattere with the State having been
pretty much left in that officer's hands. The
purpose is, if possible, to arrive at a settlement
on such a basis as will govern and keep affairs
etraight in all the future, and it is believed it
will be successful, though of course there have
been, and may be yet, scrious difficulties in the
way. A good spirit, however, prevails on both
sides.
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS.
Four or five proposed constitutional amend.
ments have come to the surface this session in
one shape or another. Those of Judge Pinkney,
for corporations to be created under a general
law and to take away entirely from the counties
and city of Baltimore the power to contract
debts for internal improvements, have becu men-
tioned. A needed amendment is heard of out-
side as yet, so that the Legislature could pass a
general law in regard to extending the bounda-
ries of cities and growing towns. Only the or-
ganizations of counties is provided for, and Wi-
comico and Garrett have been created since
1867. It is evident that the extension of the
bounds of municipalities was overlooked in the
organic law which gives the Legislature power
to create municipalities.
Another important amendment is being pre-
pared, aud, it is said. is likely to go to the pop-
ular vote, viz., to remodel the judiciary, to re-
turn to the one-judge, ten-year term system for
circuits, and permanent Court of Appeals of five
members, and some changes in the city beucb.-
Many reasous are supplied for tius change, be-
sides the cost of the present elaborate system.
bat the bill for the purpose has not been pre-
pared yet and the provisions are not matured.
It is very evident, however, that the judiciary
will not be withont assailants in this Legisla-
ture, and the disposition to attack it was one of
the very first things that began to crop out after
the General Assemoly met.
The latest proposed amendment is to reach
the Orphans' Court judges of Baltimore city.
This measure comes from a very prominent legal
practitioner, who has probably been kept wait.
ing. He proposes to substitute one properly
qualified judge for the three now comprising
the court, to sit five hours on each of three days
of the weck. In his preamble the author of this
amendment says of the present Orphans' Court:
"In order to reach this learned tribunal it is ne-
cessary first to have your name inscribed in a
book and procure of a clerk a ticket of admis-
sion, and then to place yourself at the end of a
qucue as at a French theatre, guarded by a bal-
lift, and wait your turn to enter a closed box in
front of the tribunal," which the writer thinks
13 ridiculous. Being paid only a per diem, the
court, it is charged, for that reason remains only
in session one to two hours a day, whereas the
whole business could be done by one mau, who
need be on duty only three days in each week,
without the formality attending the brief daily
sessions of the present court. The paper has not
been presented to the Legislature, and is men-
tioned here only as the latest idea for a consti-
tional amendment.
PROPERTY ASSESSMENTS.
The most important thing done in the House
was the passage of Mr. McCosker's bill giving
the Appeal Tax Court of Baltimore city power to
lessen as well as increase assessments of real,
Jeasehold and personal property for taxation
"on satisfactory cause being shown;" also to
make transfers and correct accounts of assess-
able property charged to taxpayers. Appeals
may be taken from the Appeal Tax Court to the
Superior Court of Baltimore city, and the sher-
iff shall then he directed to summon a jury of
twelve taxpayers, who shall meet on the prem-
ises and make a final and conclusive assess-
ment, the costs to be paid by the party
appealing. The bill now goes to the
Senate. It was intended by Mr. Rayner,
who is an active member of the judiciary com-
mittee. to make the law mandatory on the Ap-
peal Tax Court to reopen assessments on the
petition of the owner of property assessed, but
that will be done in the Seunte. This law has
been asked by a number of taxpayers of the
city, the Appeal Tax Court having at present
the power to increase but not to lower assess-
ments returned by the boaras of control and re-
view.
MINE INSPECTOR'S REPORT.
The second annual report of Peter Cain, mine
inspector for Allegany and Garrett counties,
Md, for the year 1877. has been sent to the Leg-
islature through the Governor. The report re-
fers to the canal, railroad and mining strikes,
and the freshet, as well as other circumstances
tending to lessen the production of coal for the
year and to lower prices and afford opportunity
for under-cutting by the Clearfield (Pa.) mining
companies. A number of contracts were di-
verted from Maryland to Pennsylvania inines
under these circumstances. The inspector de-
tails his visits to the different mines, and be-
lieves his inspections have had good effect.
There are about thirty mines in operation in the
Maryland coal region, nearly ali of them in Alle-
gany county.
In some lew instances attention was called to
the existence of "black damp" in mines, which
was remedied by fresh air at once on the sug-
gestion of the inspector. The Allegany delega-
tion manifested considerable interest in the re-
port, which, however, contained very little or
no information not before well known.
BUSINESS MISSTATEMENTS,
The bill by Mr. Burt, of Baltimore, in regard
to making a penal offense of false businese state-
ments by corporations, is based on the Pennsyl-
vania law. The bill 18 now betore the judiciary
committee and nas received the commendation
of the press. It punishes with a fine of not more
than $10.000 and imprisonment six months to
two years in jail of all directors or other officers
of any corporation who shall sien or publish,
either generally or for private circulation among
stocknolders, estoer knowingly or by neglect of
duty, any oficial statement of the affairs of the
corporation tending to give a fictitions value,
more or less, to the shares of stock of such cor-
poration. The law is designed to stop lying re-
ports trom business corporations, and the pen-
alty is considered not too severe for a misde-
meanor, which it is proposed to make such false
reports.
BUSQUEHANNA AND TIDEWATER CANAL.
The treasurer of the Susquehanna and Tide-
water canal has asked an early interview with
the ways and means committee of the House in
regard to the default of that corporation to pay
the state the interest, $60.000, due on mortgage
to the State. The canal is controlled by the
Reading railroad. A proposition was published
last week in the Financial Chronicle to the effect
that the Reading railroad desired to pay the
debt in scrip fundable in income bonds for five
years. This proposition, however, will hardly
meet with favor. A committee of gentlemen
Interested in the canal and railroad is expected
to meet the ways and means committee this
week.
COLORED HOUSE OF REFUGE,
The Speaker presented the petition of Enoch
Pratt in behalf of the House of Reforma-
tiou and Instruction for Colored Children,
and asking an appropriation 01 $15,000 to build
and furnish another family buliding, in addition
to the yearly appropriation of $10,000 usually
given. The petition sets forth that it is now
five years since the institution was commenced
at Cheltenham, and says: "We first built one-
half the main building, then the other half. fol-
lowed by a family building. The commitments
have been so rapid we have not been able to
furnish accommodations fast enough. We have
now the main building, with the three family
buildings. and we have over two hundred boys,
and proper room for one only hunored and fifty:
and to-day we say we have the most noble and
efficient institution in the State., except the In-
stitution for the Deafaud Dumb."
LEGISLATIVE NOTES.
It is understood the committee on federal re-
lations will report favorably on the Maryland
and Delaware ship canal by the Sassafras river
route. There will be two reports on the East-
ern Shore senatorial law, one for and the other
against repeal. Mr. Murray Vandiver went
again for the Havre de Grace cattle scales to-
day, and introduced a bill appropriating $500
for the purpose. The Havre people say they
"must have them scales." Mr. Brace, of Alle-
gany, has introduced a bill providing that no
husband or wife shall be compellable to testify
against each other in any criminal proceeding or
to divulge any communication from one to the
other made during marriage.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.