LOCAL MATTERS.
Prisoner's Aid and Relief of Extreme
Destitution-A Work Based on Faith. The
executive committee of the Maryland Prisoner s
Aid Association, Joseph Merreſteld chairman,
and Chas L Oudesluys secretary, have ac-
cepted the resignations of Rev. Penfield Doll
and Mrs Doil, agents of the society. The com-
mittee to whom the matter was referred at the
late annual meeting of the aid association acted
on the resignations yesterday and clected from
among a number of applicants Rev.J. B. Shontz
and wife, of Wilkesbarre, Pa.,as the future agents
of the society. It was represented that Mr. and
Mrs. Shontz had had much experience in the pe-
culiar work required of them in the visitation of
jails, almshouses, &c. Mr. Shontz speaks Ger-
man as well as Euglish, and graduated from the
Theological Seminary at Mercersburg, Pa. Tney
have no family. Mrs. Doll will continue as ma-
tron at the Baltimore city jail. Mr. and Mrs.
Doll have engaged engaged in other home
work considered of an important nature, and
other home missionary
wholly disconnected with prison labor
Mr. Doil and his wife, as agents, received to-
gether $800 a year from the association, and in
addition to their visitation and other required
duties as agents gave temporary shelter and
ministration for an hour or a day, or longer, dur-
ing the past seven years, in their own house, to
1,008 released male prisoners and 104 females.
They are anxious to gi give all their time and at-
tention to the relief of all extreme cases of des-
titution which come to them. Of nem. Of this class
108 persons, comprising men, women and chi
dren, have been cared for within the past three
years in their house, Independent of released
prisoners. The names of the this and de-
tails of every contribution and individual bene-
fited are recorded, and a journal accurately
kept by the unttiing workers, who say they find
pressing upon them the duty of relieving many
extreme cases every month. They desire to
found for such needy persons a temporary home
and relief on the "principle of voluntary trust,
all work, strong faith and no begging " So far
money has come to meet all the requirements
which destitution has brought to their doors.
Mr. Doll says God provides. Money has cоше
from many citizens of Baltimore, more, and also from
contributors, without solicitation, in Maryland,
Virginia, Pennsylvania and District of Colum-
bia He trusts that there will be no lack of
whatever may be needed to relieve all who may
come. The principle of "voluntary trust" to
meet these cases as they come up has signal and
striking illustration in the cases of Dr. Chas.
Cullis, of Boston, and Geo Muller, in England,
on whose hauds, from the care of one or two
orphaus in his own house, hundreds came to
him with the means provided, day by day, unso-
licited, until he had built up an extensive estab-
lishment, which was maintained without beg-
out beg-
ging on voluntary contributions and thrifty
management. These seem to be the models be-
fore Mi. and Mrs. Doll.
City Markets- arkets-Fish, Vegetables, &c-The
supplies of fish andspring vegetables were some-
what restricted at Lexington and Belair mar-
kets yesterday, dealers giving as the reason that
the recent northeast gales interfered with the
operations of the fishermen and truck raisers.
The day was raw and winter-like, in marked
coutrast with the warm sunshine and balmy at-
mosphere of the Friday previous. Shad sold at
from 50 cents to 81 a pair; herrings 20 to 25 cents
per dozen; perch, pan rock, pike and other bunch
fish 25 to 50 cents, according to size of bunch,
hard crabs 25 cents per dozen. Several varieties
of fish usual at this season were not in market.
Meats were in the usual supply, without notice-
able change in prices. Spring lamb lambs $0 to $7
each or 25 cents per per pound; chickens $1 to
$1 25 a pan, butter 25 to 30 cents per lb. for
roil, 30 to 35 cents print, Delaware and fancy lots
40 to 50 cents; eggs 18 cents per dozen. In the
vegetable department small lots of new peas
brought $1 20 per peck. asparagus $1 20 buuch,
radishes, onions, lettuce, sprouts and rhubarb,
from gardens adjacent to Baltimore, were in
good supply, and sold at reasonable prices,
sprouts from 12 to 20 cents peck. Winter vege-
tables-White potatos 40 to 50 cts peck; sweet
Go cents, apples 30 to 50 cents Sicily orans
to 50 cents dozen The fiorists made good
plays of flowering plants in pots, and sales were
liberal.
oranges 25
dis-
Archinshop Bayley and His Visit to Eu-
rope. The Catholic Mirror this week contains
a circular of Archbishop Bayley, dated Easter
Monday, 1877, and addressed to the, clergy and
laity of the archdiocese of Baltimore in legard
to his departure for Europe. The archbishop
says: "After "After having battled against my sickness
the whole winter without much improvement,
I have determined, by the advice of my physi-
cians, to try a voyage across the ocean. It is
very much against my own will. Every one who
leaves home drags a lengthening chain after
him: but this is especially the case with a bishop
when comvelled to leave his diocese, where
he
has so many duties and responsibilities. nsibilities. I need
not say to you how great a trial it is to me to be
obliged to abstain from all active duty. If it
back as soon as possible. Meanwhile I com
please God to restore my health will come
mend myself to the prayer of the reverend cler
gy, the religious communities and the faithfult
Official Visit to Baltimore City College.-
The mayor and a few of the city councilmen
yesterday afternoon made an official visit to the
Baltimore City College on North Howard street.
Besides Mayor Latrobe, Councilmen Orem end
Wentz interested themselves in the visit; also
John T. Morris, president, Gen. Phelps and
Messrs. Morris, Murray, Plaskett, Prof. Tonry
and Dr. Dalrymple, of the school board; Prof.
Gilman, of Johns Hopkins University; Reverdy
Johnson, Jr., Prof. Prof. Hollingshead, Prof. Shep-
herd, Rev. Dr. Morris, Rev. James H. Baird,
and Rev. Dr. Leyburn; also Prof. Elliott, presi-
dent of the College, and Profs. Webster, Clarke,
Morgan, Raddatz and Kerr, of the college.
The programme of exercises by the pupils
embraced a mano duet by John M. Frisch and
F. H. Claridge; address of welcome by Manly
Barnes; quartette, Charles J. Gillespie, E. Т.
Lumpkin, E. Wilson and H. Wilson; declama-
tions by George W. Nachman, Douglass Rose,
Wilham Quinn, John Cohen, W. L. McDowell
and J. H. Quinan; an address by Henry T. Por-
ter; violin solo, Isador Noth; vocal duet, Henry
C Merryman and E. T Lumpkin, address by
Walter Lefevre; the whole concluding with an
exercise in the manual of arms by the cadets,
under the direction of Captain Marley. The
eforts of the boys were appreciated by the
official and other visitors, and caused much
favorable comment
May or Latrobe was introduced by Gen. Phelps
and gave some interesting data relating to the
early formation of the schools, &c. The first
schools were opened during Mavor Jacob Small's
administration, Sept. 21, 1829. at No 94 Bond
street, where 146 pupils attended, and at the
Third Presbyterian Church, on Eutaw street,
with 108 pupils The total amount at the dis-
posal of the commissioners for the first year
was $1,431 41 Expenses of the first quarter
$767 35. Population of Baltimore at the time
81 000 The first co hrst commissioners were Joseph
Cushing, James Clarke, Wm. Hubbard, John B.
Morris, Fielding Lucas, Jr., and John Reese.
The teachers appointed September 2, 1829, were
Thompson Randolph, teacher of the male de-
partment for the eastern section; Harriet D.
Randolph, teacher of female department for the
eastern section; Margaret McConkey, female de-
partment, western section, Wm H Coffim, male
department, western section, salaries, $400 per
annum inales, $200 per annum
er annum females.
In 1576 the total number of schools was, 119,
teachers 731, pupils attending during the year 47,
191 total expenditures for public schools in 1876,
$677,986 82. The total expenditures for public
schools in Boston the same year was $2,015,000.
An address was made by Mr. Wentz, of the city
council, and the audience retired. The college
numbers 436 scholars.
Disturbing a Court in Session. Session.-John John Mc-
Donnell, a burly and noisy spectator in in the
Criminal Court, was committed to jail for three
days yesterday by Judge Brown for being
• drunk and disorderly" in the presence of the
court. Ballhit Thompson put his hand on Mc-
Donuell, who was talking in too loud a key,
with an admonition to "silence," when McDon-
neli drev drew back his hand as if to strike A strug-
gle took place and in an instant almost McDon-
nell was floored, pushed down in the hustling
of bailifts to scize him. It produced considera-
ble excitement until the cause of the commo-
tion was known. Judge Brown ordered the
oftender to be brought forward, and the ballitt.
Thompson, amia irrepressible interruptions from
McDonnell, stated to the court the cirenm-
stances. The judge made out a commitment
for three days and the prisoner was taken off to
jail by a deputy warden. Nobo Nobody was hurt.
From Europe -The steamship Leipzig, Cap-
taru Pohle, of the Baltimore and Bremen hue,
which has not visited the port of Baltimore
since last November, arrived yesterday morning
from Bremen direct with 200 steeraze pasen-
gers and an assorted cargo. She left. Bremen on
March 28, and had good weather on the passage.
Three of the passengers are citizens of the Uni-
ted States, and the others immigrants from Bo-
hemia and different parts of Germany. Most of
them weresent West via Baltimore and Omo rail-
road by Mr. Leimbach, emigrantagent The Ber-
lin brought a larger number of immigrants than
any steamer of the line since last autumn. Im-
migration increases with the return of spring
Official Fisit. A committee of the grand
jury of the Criminal Court of Baltimore city,
with Sheriff Mills and some of the managers of
the House of Reformation and Instruction for
Colored Children, made an official visit to that
institution at Cheltenham station. Prince
George's county, yesterday. Commitments of
colored boys are made to the house from Balti-
more Gen Horn is the superintendent of the
institution, which is under strict discipline and
well managed.
Sale of a Church Bullding. The Broan-
way Methodist Protestant Church building has
been sold to the congregation of St Johns Lu-
theran Church of watch Rev. Uriel Graves 19
pastor, for $12,000. The terms were payment
yesterday afternoon alternoon of $600 carnest money, bal-
ance due the membership of $3 400, to be paid
in six months and $8,000 on mortgage, which
are considered very easy terms
people of my dlocese "
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.