English Anniversary-St George's Day
and Dinner in in Baltimore. St George's
day was celebrated by me du George's society
(English) last night by a dinner at Rennert's
Hotel, at which about eighty gentlemen sat down
to a bill of fare that included not only the
typical roast beef of Old Eugland, but the deli-
cacies of Maryland The Stars and Stripes, Union
Jack and a portrait of Queen Victoria were
among the decorations JS. Brancker, preal-
dent of the association occupied the chair, and
amongst those present were Mayor F. C La-
trobe, Revs Wm Kirkus aud Jas Chipchare, S.
Eccles. E. G Lind, Professors Gilman, Martin,
Morris and Farlay, of Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity. Dr. Morrison, John HB Latrobe, Capi
Pfeifer, of the steamship Leipzig, O H Hough-
ton, Stewart Darrell, Dr. T Clay Maddux, W.
W Spence, D Donnelly. F. WN Crouch. an-
thor of Kathleen Mavourneen," Wm Good-
win, of Liverpool, England, and others
After full justice had been done to the dinner
Mr J S. Brancker, the president, made a state-
ment as to the condition of the society, showing
the good which it had effected since its organi-
zation. After the toasts of "The Queen" and
The President of the United States" had been
given-
Rev. Mr Kirkus, in replying to the toast of
"St George's Day," apoke of the freedom allow-
ed to Englishmen in this country on political
and social subjects, although he did not think
that they ever showed as much candor on that
subject as Americans Englishmen were never
heard to say that the government was made up
of unmitigated and unprincipled scoundrels, avd
yet the press, not only of the country, but also
of Baltimore, daily furnishes this news, which,
if not refreshing, is at least valuable. With all
the kindness extended to Englishmen by Amer-
icans, they still continued to look upon the old
country as their nome. There was something'
which they could not find elsewhere-in fact,
some one whom they could look up to. He him
self was not pledged ecclesiastically to Saint
George, as there were some things about him.
that would not bear looking into-in fact, a sort
of hazy theology not exactly suited for to-day..
And yet he thought it was better for a people
to have a saint better than themselves, and not.
be so constituted that they did not think they
were so good that they ought to be mayor of a
city or President of the United States. Не
thought, however, that there should be some-
thing which ought to be lasting and should not
merely be voted for, and therefore he respondea
heartily to the toast of "St. George's Day "
The toast of "Old England" was responded to,
by Professor Martin, of Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity, and that of "The Engrishman" by Mr. Mil-
ler, who sang the song from the opera of "Pina-
fore" "For he is an Englishman." "The Colo-
nies" was responded to by Mr. Stewart Darrell,
and "Our Sister Societies by Mr. W. W. Spence,
of the St. Andrew's, and Mr Dantel Donnelly,
of the Hibernian Society. Mr. Donnelly said
that he looked upon Irishmen and Englishmen
as one, and every Irishman in the city henored
the St. George's Society
The toast, "The City of Baltimore," was re-
sponded to by Mayor Latrobe, who said that
when he came into office he had prepared a
speech to deliver at every banquet, but, iuding:
it would not suit the St. George's society, had
been compelled to leave it at home Maryland-
ers showed by the names which they had given
to their cities and counties that they were
proud of their English ancestry and recollec-
tions, and he hoped oficially that during this,
season there would be a large emigration of
Euglishmen to Baltimore
President D. C. Guшан, гевропJag το το
toast of the "Johns Hopkins University," said
he was grateful for the explanation of the char-
acter of St George which had been so lacidly
given by Rev Mr. Kirkus He knew that St.
Michael and All Angels was in the reverend
gentleman's location, but he did not know that
St George also resided in his parish. He had
been looking around the audience, but could not
find the typical John Bull. His own ancestors
left their country (perhaps for their country's
good) 200 years ago, and he was therefore a.
member of the society in posse, if not in esse. It
was remarkable to see how, since the days of
the colonies. English science and letters had
exercised their inquence in this country. He
instanced Cambridge, Yale, William and Mary
Colleges, and many others And so what!
could have been done better in Baltimore?
Wherever the cross of St George waved he felt
that there would be those who loved liberty next
to learning, and engaged in the study of science
and letters
"The Ladies" was responded to very happily
by Mr W Y. Perot, and The Founders of the
Society" by Mr W H. Perot. Songs, duets and
quartertes made up the programme, and early
morning was reached before the company
separated.
Amongst those who assisted in the musical
part of the programme were Messrs. Jno. G St.
Kneller, E. G Lind, F. N Crouch, Wm Kirkus,
Jr.. and 5 Eccles.
Hon. John Merryman, Mrs. Merryman,and;
Misses Nannie and Bettie Merryman bave re-
turned home from their European tour. They
reached New York on Saturday, in the steamer
Germanic, Capt Kennedy, from Liverpool. Mr.
Merrymau and family sailed from New York on
31st October They spent some time in London,
and visited the principal points of interestin
England. Paris and Rome were visited, and
considerable time devoted to Southern Italy.
They returned to London early in April. Two
Hereforde, purchased for himself and for Mr.
Frank Brown, of Sykesville, and a Devon bull,
from the Queen's Norfolk farm, on account of
the prohibition, cannot now be shipped to this
country. Two Southdown rams for the Druid
Hill Park flock, which he also bought, willi
arrive in the steamer Nova Scotian, due here on.
next Saturday. Mr Merryman goes to Wash-
ington to-day to confer with the President and!
to give his views relative to the inexpediency of
coutinuing a prohibition of English cattle.
Colored House of Reformation. -The
House of Reformation and Instruction for Col-
ored Children, at Cheltenham, Prince George's
county, has 210 inmates, while the three build-
ings are intended to accommodate only 50, voye
in cach. The bo trd of managers hope to get an
appropriation from the neat State Legislature
to erect a fourth building. For the past 18
months justices of the peace have been request-
ed to refrain from committing children to the,
institution except in extreme cases. Forty boys
now there would be bound out to good homes it
such could be found, but in these times it is
difficult to make that disposition of them. Those
farmers and others who take boys are required
to pay wages, which the managers put in a sav-
ings bank until the boys are of age.
Cost of Repaving Streets -In addition to the
amount involved in the question between the city.
and property owners along Baltimore street
for the cost of repaving it, there are also the fol-
lowing sums on account of other repaved streets:
Fayette street, from Gay to Holliday, $2,205 66-
city's share under the regular ordinance $1.060.
Fayette street, from Calvert to Charles, $3,003 10,
city's share $1,001 03 Lombard street, from
south to Howard. $13,712 77, city's share
$4,405 75 Pratt street, from Jones's falls to
Howard street, $39,812 46.
Badly Burned -Annie Kaschupe, 6 years of
age, was seriously burned yesterday by her
clothing catching fire white she she was picking
coke from a pite of cinders at the chemical
works. in Canton. She is the daughter of Mi-
chael Kaschupe, No & Potomac street. Cauton,
who is an invalid. The girl's legs, arms and
face were burned.
Painful Acordent. -Charles Enright, a work-
man at Chipman & Son's chair factory, Canton.
was severely wounded in the face yesterday by
a splinter thrown off from a circular saw. The
splinter, which was five inches long and half an
inch thick, struck Enright below the right eye,
The point coming out back of the cheek-bone.
Roller Kinks. The Baltimore and Washing-'
ton roller rinks closed last night. The season
In Baltimore was most successful. The director
of the Baltimore rink goes to Saratoga to open
an establishment there. An interesting game
of polo was played last night.
Arrivals at Pimilico. The stable of E. A.
Clabaugh, consisting of Westminster, Odep,
Achsah, Dart, Lucia, Cloverbrook, Rochester
and Vigilant, arrived at Pimlico on Tuesday.
Yesterday the stable of M. Donahue, of New
York. arrived.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.