THE DECLINE IN BRITISH INDUSTRIES At
the late session of the British Social Science
Congress, at Cheltenham, Mr. David Chadwick,
a well-known member of Parliament, delivered
an interesting discourse on the causes of the
present depression and stagnant condition of
industrial enterprise, and what are the best
remedies. Heshowed that while British imports
had increased in the course of the deccunial
period in the sum of 145 millions of pounds
sterling, the exports of British products had
only increased 108% millions. In the four years
from 1878 to 1876 there had been a decrease of
564 millons in the exports of British products,
accompanied with an increase of 23 millions in
the imports in the same period. These figures
afford a striking instance of consumption ont-
running production. Mr. Chadwick attributes
the inflation of business in 1872-173 to the extra-
ordinary stimuins given to foreign and colonial
trade by the numerous government loans to
which British capitalists contributed so largely,
and the money realized from which was
used in the construction of railroads and
public works by the many foreign benefi-
ciaries of British largesse. The greater part of
these loans have been entirely sunk. and there
is httle chance now of either interest or principal
being realized. This enormous bankruptcy of
the debtors to Great Britam was one cause of
the depression of trade which began in 1873
and which, in Mr. Chadwick's forcible language,
has culminated in the paralysis of 1878. Other
causes which he enumerated for the depression:
of trade were the three bad harvests since 1871,
which, according to the figures of Mr. Caird,
bad involved a loss of eighty-seven and a-half
millions sterling, together with the famine
in India and China and the consequent loss of
trade with these countries. The successful
competition of foreign countries, and especially
of the United States, aided by protective dutics
in those countries, was also a cause, and Mr.
Chadwick did not forget to mention that India,
now manufacturing its own cotton goods, has
ceased to buy them of Manchester.
great deal of capital previously active had been
locked up in opening new and unproductive
coal pits and iron mines: the Turkish war and
the fear of war with Russia, and finally the re-
currence of the decennial cycle of bad trade,
which had had its regular period for one hun-
dred and fifty years, aided in intensifying the
general depression. With regard to the effects
of American competition, a Birmingham cor-
respondent of the New York Times, writing
under date of October 25, furnishes some
pointed instances. Birmingham still does an
enormous business, as the letter referred to
shows, but Belgium, France and the United
States have all three greatly interfered with
her special industries. This has been par-
ticularly the case in the manufacture of arms, of
which Birmingham at one time had the monopo-
ly. During the late Russo-Turkish war Rhode
Island and Connecticut almost entirely took
this profitable business to themselves, and
many others of the special industnes of
the busy city are feeling the effects of
the competition forced upon them by our
manufacturers. The correspondent of the
Times says that all the Birmingham inanufac-
turers with whom he has conversed look for-
ward to a continuous decline in their city's
trade. A member of the Chamber of Com-
merce said to him: "Our export trade with
America is dead." An ironmonger, who
represented as having once had a large market
in this country, no longer sends out a single
article, bat, instead, sells in Birmingham a
good deal of imported American merchandise.
These wares and notions" be pronounced "ex-
cellent." "They are a clever people," he said,
"and best ns on our own ground, but the tarifts
kili us. There was once a famous form here,
Van Wort, relatives of the great Washington:
they did an extensive trade in exports to the
States; they closed up their business some time
ago; the truth is, the American trade is over,
and what a trade it was when I was a boy!
Why, sir, the Americans are actually sending
us clectro-plated goods.".
18
The last report of the Birmingham Chamber
of Commerce is full of gloomy forebodings. In
regard to trade with this country it says: "To
the United States, formerly our most valuable
enstomer, the exports are constantly diminish-
ing, and to such a serious extent that in a few
years, unless a change takes place, the Ameri-
cau trade in this district will be aitogether ex-
tinguished." This general withdrawal of trade
has made British manufacturers so anxious that
in Birmingham and elsewhere many of them
are disposed to abandon their free trade princi-
ples and look to a revision of the tauft for pro-
tection." I am a free trader," said a Birming
ham buttonmaker to the Times correspondent,
but really I think we might try a little pro-
tection on countries which trouble us most. 1
don't know about America, but Spain is abom-
inable; they have made a dead set against us
there; 25 per cent. worse than any other coun-
try they think a fair thing for John Bull."
The doctrine of reciprocity treaties seems to
be gaining ground, and a leading manufacturer
is reported as saying that he had a knowledge
of Birmingham trade extending over forty
years, and was satisfied that it could not stand
alone against the active competition and the
discriminating legislation of all the world. Mr.
Chadwick, however, in the address adverted to,
attributing the trade depression to natural and
temporary causes, looked to natural instead of
artificial remedies for relief. He wanted greater
economy in national and local expenditures,
and in private expenditure on intoxicating
Jiquors, which latter, he said, annually cost the
British people 155,000,000 pounds sterling (or
$775,000,000.) He wanted reduction in the cost
of production both in agriculture and manufac-
tures, removal of the restrictions upon trade
everywhere as far as practicable, the restora-
tion of peace amongst belligerent nations and
the subjection of joint stock companies to re-
strictions which would secure the limiting of
their operations to valid enterprises and pro-
tect the subscribers to their stock from being
defrauded by speculating managers.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.