Kemarkable Longevity.-Easter Prestby,
colored, living with her daughter, Maria Barnes,
at the house of Elizabeth Anderson, No. 11
Grove street, presents a very remarkable evi-
dence of longevity, and is, from all accounts,
considerably over one hundred years old.-
Though presenting every indication of extreme
old age, her hair being white as snow, she re-
tains her faculties and is able to converse in.
telligently. She says that her age is 110 years,
but has no record of it except by her memory.
The daughter is reported to be over eighty, and
is still able to walk about and to do light work.
Easter remembers and relates many incidents
of old times, though relating to matters of no
special importance. Unlike most centenarians,
she says that she never saw Gon. Washington,
but that she heard enough about him when
he was living. She was born in Harford county
and lived there most of her life. When the
emancipation proclamation was issued by
President Lincoln she was owned by Mr.
David Strectt, now living at Hillon and
Forrest streets, who offered her a home
for life, and desired her to remain with
him. Her daughter Marta was owned by Mr.
Jehu Gorsuch, of this city, who also offered to
provide for her, but the two old women refused,
and, taking advantage of the proclamation,
went away from their homes and have since
lived together at various places in the city.
Mr. Streett says that his grandfather, also
named David Streett, bought Easter from Mr.
Hall, of Long Green, Harford county, in 1794, and
that she remained in the family until emanci-
pated. She was married and had several chil-
dren before 1794. Her husband died many years
ago. According to his reckoning, Easter is much
older than she claims to be. He says that his
father, who died in 1861, stated to him that
Easter was one hundred and four years old
that year, which would make her one hundred
and twenty-three now. Mr. Streett saya Easter
was always highly esteemed in the family, and
was an excellent nurse, house-servant and cook,
When, by his record, Easter was one hundred
years old, his father brought a beefsteak to her,
saying that he wished her to cook it for him,
as no one else could do so as well. She
replied that she thought she could make
it eatable and soon afterwards brought it in,
cooked to perfection. With a quiet smile she
requested her master "If it met with his appro-
bation" to prosent her with a quarter in token
thereof. When over ninety her sight was very
defective, but afterwards she got her "second
sight," and was for a long time able to see as
well as any young woman. Since they have
been free the old women have frequently been
assisted by their former masters, but havo re-
cently been in destitute circumstances. Both
of them have always borne good characters,
and much sympathy is expressed for their con-
dition by the colored familles who surround
them.
Produce and Prices-Strawberries and
Peas. The wholesale produce market of Bal-
timore has been fairly active this week in the
usual winter vegetables and other articles. On
Wednesday 96 quarts of Charleston strawber-
ries, grown in the open air, were sold to market-
men at 40 conts a quart. They were well ripened
and fairly good. About thirty boxes of Florida
green peas sold at $2 a bushel box. New rad-
ishes have been recoived from Charleston and
Norfolk and sold at $2 50 per 100 bunches. Pro-
duce dealers are anxious about the remarkably
forward condition of vegetation in the South,
which is fully a month ahead of the proper
season. They hope the southern section and
the Norfolk truckers will get enough cold
weather yet to keep back their crops, and save
them from a freezing out that might come
later on in the spring. A Charleston grower
has written to his comunission house here that
from the outlook at the time he wrote straw-
berries would be plentiful soon. Fish are be-
coming more abundant, although the cold snap
interfered with Chesapeake fishermen. Prices
are still rather stiff for some varieties, but in a
few days there will be a full supply of all kinds.
The prices at the city retail markets yesterday
were as follows: Turkeys 16 to 18 cts. per pound,
dressed chickens 25 to 40 cents each, ducks 35
to 50 cents, geese 75 cents to $1 25, Irish pota-
toes 20 cents per peck; sweet potatoes 30 to 40
cents, turnips 12 to 15 cents, cabbages 2 to 12
conts a head, kale 20 to 25 cents peck, broccoli
25 to 30 cents peck, sprouts 25 to 30 cents peck,
onions 40 to 50 cents peck, parsnips 5 to 8 cents
buuch, apples 25 to 40 cents peck, dried apples
8 to 10 cents quart, poaches 10 cents, peeled do.
15 to 18 cents quart, eggs 15a16 cents dozen, roll
butter 30 to 35 cents, print butter 35 to 40 cents
and Delaware print butter 40 to 45 cents pound,
rockfish, perch und pike 50 to 60c. bunch, boiling
rock $1 to $1 50 each, haddock 5 cents pound,
shad $1 to $1 50 pair, herring 50 cents, dozen.
Legislative Visit to a State Institution.-
The House of Reformation and Instruction for
Colored Children was visited yesterday by the
legislative committee on public institutions.
The committee, consisting of Delegates Doun-
vin, Rose, Ridgely and Owen, and Senator Far-
row, accompanied by Senator Welflcy, of Gar-
rett county, Delegate Touchstone, of Cecil coun-
ty, and others, arrived at Cheltenham Station,.
on the Baltimore and Potomac railroad, on a
special train, which had been placed at their
disposal by Mr. Geo. C. Wilkins, superinten-
dent, about ten o'clock A. M. Gen. John W.
Horu, superintendent of the house, mot the
committee and escorted them to the insti-
tution, where they were received by Mr.
Enoch Pratt, president of the board of man-
agers. A thorough tour of inspection was
made of the main building, also of the
four family buildings, erected some distance
from and to the rear of the main building. The
committee were much pleased with all that
they saw, especially the cleanliness and order
observable in the departments. The inmates
exhibit aptness to learn, and are taught rudi-
mentary lessons in the school-room and how to
work in tailor and shoe shops and on the farm.
The managers explained to the committee the
practical working of the institution, and said
they needed an appropriation of $10,000 in
order to make areaways around the building
to prevent dampness, also to renew flooring,
etc., which had been injured in consequence
of dampness. A band, composed of boys of the
House, entertained the committee with music,
and others of the children sang a number of
popular songs. Mr. Pratt returned to the city
with the committee.
Acquitted of Cruelty to Animals.-Rob-
ort Stewart and John Bankard, garbage cart
men, were tried in the Criminal Court yester-
day for cruelty to animals. Mr. Charles P.
Montague, president of the Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals, conducted the
prosecution in lieu of the prosecuting attorney
for the State, the law organizing the society
requiring the prosecution to be conducted in
that manuer. The accused were proved to
have beaten the horse soverely, but the horso
was shown to have a very bad temper, and to
have been very unruly and obstinate. Mr.
Montague said he had believed the men guilty,
but in view of the testimony he did not feel
that it would be right to ask for their convic-
tion. His society proposed to pursue the guilty
to punishment, but did not want any innocont
person punished. Stewart and Bankard were
accordingly declared not guilty.
Punishment of False Pretenses.-Ernest
alias "Doc" Schaar pleaded guilty in the
Criminal Court to false pretenses on oue in-
dictment, three others being stetted. The
records of the court showed that the accused
had been before the court a number of times
on similar charges in the past ten years, and
had been sentenced in several cases. Judge
Pinkney sentenced him to four years in the pen-
Itentiary. He had obtained numerous sums of a
dollar or so from small shopkeepers and others,
mostly women, as part payment in advance for
groceries and other articles, which he pretonded
to be authorized to sell under market prices.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.