The Soldiers' Home At Pikesville.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir:
Having noticed in your paper, of which
I have been a constant reader for years,
the article about the Soldiers' Home in
Pikesville, I am wondering how patriotic
Baltimore can stand by and let such sad
happenings occur unheeded. Of course,
the residents of this place are now too
old to be soldiers, but they were soldiers
who faced death and horrors worse than
death in a losing cause, the cause as they
then saw it, and they can still lose their
home and grin and bear it.
The war is over now. What do we need
with soldiers?. By the time we have an-
other war we will have more boys grown
to manhood to carry a rifle so the country
is safe. Why not take up a collection
for the purpose of building a shot tower
where the Soldiers' Home now stands at
Pikesville? Or another good idea would
be to buy the Shot Tower and give the
old Civil War veterans the privilege of
standing on the sidewalk on Fayette
street, explaining to a gaping visitor
what shot and shell are made for. Then
build a park around the old Shot Tower
and have benches in it for the unfor-
tunate war veterans to sleep on.
I ask you Baltimoreans, who also
claim to be Southerners, to look to the
welfare of these old men and try to give
them some happiness in their old age.
A READER AND SISTER OF A WORLD WAR
VETERAN.
■ Forest Park, Md., Feb. 25.
Hopes He Will Pray For Repent-
ance And Be Forgiven,
TO THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir:
I noticed a brief letter in THE SUN of
the 24th inst., signed "Republican."
Well, from the tone of his letter, he
seems to be very sorry and heart-broken
that he voted for Senator France. Не
says he voted for Mr. France because
David J. Lewis was a Socialist. Now
he asks God to forgive him for casting
his vote for Mr. France.
Then he knows that he committed a'
double sin-first, by voting for Mr.
France; second, by charging the Hon.
David J. Lewis with. something of which
he is not guilty.
If the writer would have had any fore-
sight he could have seen the weakness in
Senator France's policy before he voted.
for him. I hope he will pray for re-
pentance and he will be blessed.
C. N. STEM.
Sabillasville, Md., Feb. 24.
३
Most Of Us Will Compromise On
Taking It Sitting Down.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir:
The eminent physician, Dr. Reynold
Webb Wilcox, president of the American
College of Physicians, in this morning's
SUN says: "Drinking sitting down will
promote temperance." "He doubts effi-
cacy of prohibition and assails blue
laws." And says, "The Ten Command-
ments themselves say nothing about Sun-
day observance, except that we shall not
work."'
He surely has forgotten the Ten Com-
mandments, or maybe, he never knew
them. I ask him to read carefully the
Fourth Commandment. The first clause,
Exodus, xx, 8: "Remember the Sabbath
day to keep it holy."
:
G. M. SCAGGS.:
Cheltenham, Md., Feb. 23.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.