[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.!
The Bryantoivn Outrage-Confession
of the Culprit and Threats of Lynch-
ing.
PORT TOBACCO, CHARLES COUNTY, MD., July
2.-Henry Johnson, colored, the youth who, on
Sunday last, committed an outrage on a three-
year-old child of Mr. Henry L. Mudd, at Bryan-
town, is still in jail. He acknowledged his
guilt to Justico Dent, and has not since dented
it, but has given willingly to all who asked it a
rull description and accountof the whole affair.
On the committal of Johnson by Justice Dent,
the constable started off with his prisoner to
lodge him in jall here, but sald on locking him
up that he had no idea on starting that he
should be permitted to proceed with him un-
molested. A number of colored men in the
vicinity of Bryantown, it is said, expressed
their willingness to lynch him.
The prisoner states that he was born in Bal-
timore, and that his parents live in that city,
in Bethel row, on Saratoga street, near Gay
street. Whou 8 years of age he was sent to the
Colored House of Reformation at Cheltenham,
Prince George's county, where he stayed five
years, and was taught to read and write. About
four years ago, ho says, he went to live with
Mr. Mudd. He is but little over five feet high,
dark complexion, with fuli African character-
istics and expresston. He talks more like a
child than a man, and evidently does not fully
appreciate the enormity of his offense. He
eats heartily and sleeps undisturbed,
Last night for the first time he gave signs of
uneasiness and fear. When asked if he was
not afraid he would be taken from the jail and
hung, he replied: "Yes, a man was here this
afternoon and said I would be taken out to
night and hung," and he was unable to talk
for some time, tears running down his cheeks,
There is a difference of opinion in the com-
munity as to his being hung by the people
without awaiting his legal trial. Many think
that as some days have elapsed since the
cominission of the offense, the law will be al-
lowed to take its regular course; others say
that the feeling against him gaius strength
every day, and that he certainly will be lynched.
Monday night every arrangement was com-
ploted for his execution, the rope provided and
the tree selected, but he escaped on account
of the non-arrival of the deputation that was
expected from Bryantown. These gentlemen
sent word that they should be waited for, but
did not put in an appearance, and they were
waited for until the night was too far advanced
to act in the matter. Every night since there
has been a gathering of men benton having the
life of the culprit, but for some reason they
have failed to act. They say very positively,
however, that the lapse of time doos not affect
their intentions in the slightest, and that they
will take the boy out of jail and hang him,
The jail is a two-story brick structure, three
of its sides included in a yard made by a stout
board fence 12 feet high. The front or open
side of the jail is entered by a wooden door of
no decided strength. The building stands on
the outskirts of the town, about two hundred
yards from any dwelling house. Its only
occupants are the boy criminal and a colored
man named Jim Craig, contined for theft. They
occupy a room together on the second floor.
Should the excited men of the community
seek to carry out their threats of vengeance,
there is little to oppose them. The front door
of the jail would readily yield to a blow from a
stout joist impelled by one or two strong men,
and the opening of the inside door could be
readily effected. Those speaking of doing the
execution make light of auy resistance the
jailer could offer. Should the law be permitted
to take its course, the case of Johnson would
come up at the November torm of court, and, as
there is much on the docket, his hearing might
be delayed some time.
The penalty for such a crime as he has com-
mitted is death, unless his age be urged in ex-
tonuation. Mr. Henry L. Mudd, father of the
child, is a brother of Dr. Samuel A. Mudd, who
was confined at the Dry Tortugas, charged with
assisting J. Wilkes Booth, the assassin of Prest-
deat Lincoln, to escape.