MARYLAND POLITICS.
Republican Congressional Nominat-
ing Conventions.
[Reported for the Baltimore Sun.]
Three republican congressional nominating
conventions were held in Maryland yesterday.
Two of these were in Baltimore, for the third
and fourth aistricts of the city, which nomi-
nated respectively Joshua Horner, Jr., and
Enoch Pratt for Congress. At Laurel, in Prince
George's county, the republican convention for
the fifth district met and nominated Dr. Wm.
R. Wilmer for Congress.
THIRD DISTRICT CONVENTION.
The republican congressional convention of
the third district (comprising the lower wards
of Baltimore efty) met at Raine's Hall. Major
R. S. Mooney presided, and W. S. Grape was
ooner presided,
secretary. A delegation, headed by H. C. Un-
derwood, contested the seats of the delegation
headed by Thos. Nicholson, and which was re-
turned as elected, on the ground that they had
received 199 votes to 177 for the Nicholson dele-
gation, the order of which, they claimed, had
been reversed by the judges. The committee
on credentials, however, reported the list of
delegates as published in yo terday's SUX, In-
cluding the Nicholson delegation from the sev-
enth ward.
C. M. Snyder moved to go into nomination.
R. A. Dunu moved as a substitute to postpone
to Octeber 1. The object of postponement was
not stated, but was supposed to be "bal olo
only. The substitute was tabled by yeas 34,
nay's 11, and the original motion adopted.
olood"
Edward Bioldieman nominated Joshua Horn-
er, Jr., and the nominations were closed. A
motion was offered to make Mr. Horner's nom-
Ination unanimous. R. A. Dunn called for a
division, and the vote on the question stond
yeas 34, nays 11. The nays were, from the
ninth ward 5, first ward 5 and seventh ward
1. The first ward delegates left the room
amidst some confusion, during which a fight
seemed imminent, but did not take place.
Thomas C. Shall, J. T. Armacost, C. M. Snyder,
W. B. McAllistor and E. H. Stouart were ap-
pointed to walton Mr. Horner and notify him of
his nomination. They returned and said Mr.
Horner accepted, and would do so formally by
letter. Adjourned.
SKETCH OF THE NOЗІNЕЕ.
Mr. Joshua Horner, Jr., the nomince, is about
36 years old, and is very popular among his
constituents. He is a son of the late Joshua
Horner, who was one of the best-known citi-
zens of East Baltimore, Mr. Horner is at pres-
ent engaged in the manufacture of fertilizers.
He is also the representative of the sixth ward
in the first branc branch of the city council, having
defeated Mr. D Meredith Reese, the the regular
democratic nomince, in 1879. Mr. Horner is a
gentleman of fine education and great discre-
tion. His record in the city council has been
unexceptional. It was Mr. Horner who nomi-
nated Mr. John B. Wentz, a democrat, for
school commissioner, in the joint session of the
city council called for the purpose of electing
a commissioner, thereby rising above party in
recognizing Mr. Wentz's claims to a re-election.
FOURTH DISTRICT CONVENTION.
Henry Lingenfelder called the convention to
order for the fourth congressional district,
(upper wards of Baltimore city,) at China Hall,
West Baltimore stre street, Wm. J. Hooper was
elected president, I. B. Canfleld secretary. Mr.
Hoopor said that, like Maine, he felt a little out
of order. [Laughter.] Before going into nomi-
nation he had been requested to say in regard
to Mr. Enoch Pratt, who had been spoken of as
the nomince, that Mossrs. Booth and Stirling
had walted on Mr. Pratt, who had rather indi-
cated a disposition not to serve if the nomina-
tion was tondered him; but it was thought if
the nomination was unanimous Mr. Pratt would
no longer hesitate. He had understood that
Mr. Pratt had written a letter declining the
proffered honor, but no such a letter was before
the convention.
Dr. Charles Albert said that in the absence of
such a letter he placed the name of Mr. Pratt
before the convention. [Applause.]
S. Q. Sanks (colored) sald he desired to nomi-
nate for congressional honors a gentleman, a
citizen and a patriot, one of a race whose histo-
ry in this country and this State was somewhat
of a checkered nature. He desired to present
the name of Dr. H. J. Brown, who is a consist-
ont, true and tried republican-a consistent
worker for the success of that party in this
State. [Applause.]
The name of W. J. Hooper was also men-
tioned, but he would not allow the use of it.
He said said he could not accept under any elicum-
stances, and that nothing could be offered to
Induce him to do so.
A motion was inade that the nomination of
Mr. Pratt be declared unanimous, but this was
objected to, inasmuch as a member of the con-
vention had placed another person in nomlua-
tion.
A vote was then taken by wards, and Mr.
Pratt received the full five votes of the tenth,
eleventh, fourteenth, sixtoenth, elghtoonth,
nineteenth and twentieth wards, and three
from the fifteenth ward, maklug 38 in all. Dr.
Brown received îlve votes of the twolfth ward,
cast by two colored delegates, the only repre-
sentatives of that ward present, and two votes
from the fifteenth ward, making seven in all.
Before the vote was announced the name of Dr.
Brown was withdrawn by the delegate who had
placed him before the convention, and, on his
motion, the nomination of Mr. Pratt was made
unanimous amidst applause.
A committee was appointed to notify Mr.
Pratt of the action of the convention. This
committee comprises Wm. J: Hooper, chair-
man, Dr. H. C. Moore, Dr. Froderick Stirling,
Dennis Young, J. C. Toner, A. W. Monroe, Edw.
H. Fowler, B. B. Davis, W. C. Olay, T. S. Sum-
walt and James W. Jordan. The convention
adjourned subject to the call of the president.
SKETCH OF THE NOMINEE.
No citizen of Baltimore is more largely iden-
tifled with the material interests and progress
of the community than Enoch Pratt. He is a
most successful merchant and business man,
of ceaseless industry, unflagging energy and
unstained ned private character. What he says in
business he means, what he proposes he gen-
erally does, and he is no doubt the strongest
candidate his party could place before the peo-
ple for their suffrages. Although 72 years of
age, he is more active than many far younger
men, and every day undergoes a great deal of
labor demanded by various business enter-
prises. He was born Sept. 10, 1808, in Plymouth
county, Mass. In his boyhood he attended
the Academy at Bridgewater, in his native
State; at the age of 15 years he was a clerk in a
store in Boston, where he served an appretice-
ship of six years. He came to Baltimore Jan-
uary 1, 1831, where he has ever since been en-
gaged in business. Ho is president of the
National Farmers and Planters' Bank of Balti-
moro and vice-president of the Philadelphia,
Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad. Railion He has
filled many offices of a charitable and reforma-
tory nature, and has always given hearty sup-
port to all measures calculated to advance the
prosperity of the city. He gave the estate of
Cheltenham, on which the trustees built the
House of Reformation and Instraction for Col-
orod Boys. He was also at one time a commis-
sioner of finance of the city, an office involving
great responsibility and attended by no pay.
FIFTH DISTRICT CONVENTION.
In the fifth congressional district, at Laurel,
Prince George's county, John Henry Sellman,
of Anne Arundel county, was elected president,
and John W. Belt, of Prince George's county,
secretary.
A committee on credentials reported, through
the chairman, P. G. Stonestreet, of Charles
county, that duly qualified delegates were pres-
ent from every county in the district except
Calvert county, from which there was only one
delegate. On the committee's recommendation
It was decided that this delegate should cast
the number of votes which the county was en-
titled to.
C. Irving Ditty called for the reading of the
hst of delegates, which was done. Mr. Ditty
remarked there was a vacancy in the seven-
teenth ward of Baltimore city. Mr. James
Caulk, a custom-house officer, said he had a
letter, which he asked to have read to the con-
vention, that would convince the body that he
was authorized to a seat and vote. Mr. Ditty
objected; ho said Mr. Caulk was too late, he
should havo gone before the committee on cre-
dentials. Delegates and alternates had been
duly elected by the seventeenth ward re-
publicans, and moreover all the delegates
from that ward were in Laurel. Mr. Caulk
replied that Charles E. Briscoe, colored,
had been in Laurel hut had returned
to the city. He also stated that F. M. Downs,
another seventeenth ward delegate, had not
been in Laurol. The convention voted per-
mission to have the letter to Mr. Caulz, as well
as one to Mr. James McKenny, read. The let-
ters were dated September 14, and purported
to be from George E. Briscoe and F. M. Downs,
appointing Caulk and MeKenny their respec
tive proxies. A somewhat personal controversy
took place between Mr. Ditty and Messrs. Mc-
Kenny and Caulk, which was cut short by the
chairman's putting a motion to admit the
promes The motion was lost. It made no diť.
ference, however, as the only delegate present
from the seventeenth ward, Samuel Wright,
cast the three votes, and was in sympathy with
Mr. Caulk and Mr. McKenny.
The counties were called for nominations.
Mr. Whittington, of Anne Aruudel, nominated
Col. Frederick Stone, of Charles county. Mr.
Stonestreet stated that Col. Stone hard author-
ized him to say that he positively declined a
nomination, but that he would ald in every
honorable way to bring about the election of
the nominee of the convention. Mr. Ditty
spoke to the same effect, and read letters troin
Hon. James A. Gary and Col. J. Parran Crane
advocating the nomination of Dr.W. R. Wilmer.
On the call of Baltimore county Mr. Ditty
nominated nated Dr. Wilmer. He said Dr. Wilmer
was a republican in Southern Maryland at a
time when it cost something to be a republi-
can. Calvert county made no sign when called.
Charles connty seconded the nomination of Dr.
Wilmer. Mr. Litchfield, for Howard county,
advocated Dr. Wilmer's claims. Mr. John W.
Duvall answered for Prince George's county,
and soconded the nomination of Col. Stone, a
man, he said, who claimed to be willing to
sacrifice hiinself for the republican party, and
now he was anxious to let him have that honor.
(first and thirteenth districts,) Wilmer, 2;
Charles county, Wilmer, 3; Calvert, Stone, 3;
Howard, Wilmer, 3; Prince George's, Stone, 4;
St. Mary's, Stone 2, Wilmer 1. Total-Wilmer
13, Stone 12. The nomination of Dr. Wilmer was
made unanimous. Mr. Duvall had read a letter
from S. Taylor Suit declluing a nomination,
which was greeted with cheers by the conven
tion. Adjourned sine nie.
SKETCH OF THE NOMINEE.
Dr. Wm. Ringgold Wilmer was born in Charles
county, Md., where his father, the late Rev.
Lemuel Wilmer, was for fifty years rector of
Port Tobacco parish. He is a cousin of the lato
Bishop Wilmer, of Louisiana, and of the pres-
ent Bishop Wilmer, of Alabama. He studied
medicine under the late Prof. Saml. Chew, of
Baltimore, and graduated at the University of
Maryland. He practiced his profession fifteen
years in Charles county. During part of this
time he was a draft surgeon in 1862; post sur-
geon in Charles Santy for the greater part of
the war, presudent of the school board and ex-
aminer of schools in Charles county from 1865
to 1868. and a disbumsing officer of the
War Department in Southern Maryland in
1569 and 1870. In 1871 he received an appoint-
ment in the general postoflice at Washington,
and then gave up the practice of medicine.
President Grant appointed him in May, 1872, as
collector of internal revenue for the fifth dis-
trict of Maryland, which he held until the con-
solidation with the third district in 1875, when
he became a deputy collector in the consoll-
dated district. This position he resigned in
September, 1877. to accept ept a place in the Balti
which he now holds. Dr.
Wilmer is a man of energy and industry, and
says he expects to be elected to Congress,
although his district has been giving demo-
cratic majorities.
more city postoice, which he now
St. Mary's county, through John L. Milburn,
nominated Col. Stone. Louis Carrick, colored,
of Prince George's, said he thanked God first
and the republican party next, and thought
there was no use wrangling about men.
In answer to categorical questions, Mr. Stone-
street relterated that Col. Stone had positively
assured him that under no circumstances
A vote was then taken by counties, as follows:
would he accept the nomination.
Anne Arundel. for Wilmer, 4; Baltimore city,
(seventeenth ward,) Stone, 3; Baltimore county
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.