A Presbyterian, Republican And
Civil War Veteran Denounces
The Men Who Are Trying To Stir
Up Religious Strife.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir:
I must think that any man who has any
State pride would blush for shame after
reading the proceedings in Annapolis
which took place Thursday evening last
during the hearing before the Judiciary
Committee, of the House in relation to
the bill to prohibit State aid to privately
owned institutions, The spectacle of an
outside, irresponsible interloper presum-
ing to tell the people of Maryland how
they should govern themselves should
meet with the most vehement rebuke.
The bill in question has undoubtedly for
its purpose the crippling of certain insti-
tutions allied to the Catholic Church,
but, like all such mischievous measures,
cuts both ways. As Dr. Lewis, president
of Western Maryland College, forcibly
stated before the committee February
20. it would not only cripple his col-
lege, but likewise other institutions,
among which are Washington College.
Johns Hopkins University, St. Mary's
School. Maryland School for Boys, Jewish
Hospital for Consumptives, School for
Colored Boys at Cheltenham, a similar
school for girls in Baltimore county.
Home of the Friendless and others, insti-
tutions in no way allied with the Cath-
olic Church. Ex-Senator Perkins told
the committee that the passage of the
bill would end the State tax rate sky-
high. Will it? Let us see?
..It is proposed to withhold the aid
now given by the State to these various
reformatory institutions for boys and
girls, many of whom, the majority prob-
ably, are incorrigible, some three or four
tiousand of them. What is it proposed to
do with them? Close up the institu-
tions, put them out of business-what
are you going to do with these thousands
of boy's and girls? Turn them out in
the world to become a prey to wicked
and depraved influence, to become candi-
dates for our penal institutions, and in
the last analysis become a charge upon
the State in another and more expensive
form? God forbid. What are you going
to do for the poor boy and girl whose
parents are, unable to give them the
higher education which the present State
aid enables them to acquire?
One member, in answer to this query,
replied: "Let the State own these insti-
tutions." So be it; let's do a little figur-
ing. To build or construct an institu-
tion like the Western Maryland College,
the Country School for Boys and St.
Mary's Industrial School would cost,' at
a low estimate, $200.000. There are
some 20 such in the State. There you
have $4,000,000, the equipment. Teach-
ing staff and upkeep would cost three
times as much, so, to "let the State own
these institutions" would cost the snug
little sum of $12,000,000. Would there
be a surplus in the Treasury to meet
that expense? Surely not.. Then what
follows? A bond issue of at least $10,-
000,000. With the present rate of inter-
est--6 per cent.- we will have the beau-
tiful sum of $600,000 overhead interest
charge. How high will your State tax
go? I think when our, farmer friends
in the counties realize this they will
"sit up and take notice."
Now, a word with reference to St.
Mary's Industrial School for Boys. I
have been honored as a director on the
part of the State for a number of years.
I have taken great interest in the
work done there. Being a frequent vis-
itor, I do not hesitate to say that no in-
stitution in the State is more efficiently
and economically managed Boys are
sent there from the city and various
counties of the State by the courts, most
of whom are incorrigible; others for
minor offenses from environments calcu-
lated to breed vicious characters. They
are taken in hand by Brother Paul and
his corps of assistants, are taught trades
of various kinds and an elementary edu-
cation that fits them to become self-
supporting and self-respecting units of
our citizenship. I take great pride in
the work of the school. It may perhaps
be unnecessary for me to state that I
am not a member of the Catholic Church.
I hold membership in the Brown Me-
morial Presbyterian Church. So that
my attitude in this matter may not be
misunderstood.
Now a few words relative to this man
Waldron, who seems to have the lead-
ing strings to certain members of the
Legislature, and who claims all the
credit of electing a majority of the
members of the lower house, as I believe
he claims the credit of electing the pres-
ent pro-German pacifist Mayor of Chi-
cago. That I may not be misunder-
stood, let me say that 56 years ago, as a
boy of 17 years, I marched out of Wash-
ington county as a soldier and gave
three of the best years of my life to my
country in the Sixth Maryland Regi-
ment, and will carry to my grave the
scars of three serious wounds as a result
of that service. In my political affilia-
tions I am an uncompromising Republi-
can. I have spent a lifetime in the serv-
ice of my party, have sat around the
council board of my party long before
some of the gentlemen who will decide
the fate of this bill were born. If there
are any men of my party who hold seats
in this Legislature, and who are there
in virtue of any pledge of subservient
obedience to the will of this man Wal-
dron, to vote and act as he directs, then
all I have to say is that they have sold
their birthright for a mess of pottage,
and have no right to place their party
in such an unenvłable position. At this
particular time, when our blessed coun-
try is engaged in a life-and-death strug-
gle to make the world safe for democ-
racy, it is treasonable for this outside
interloper to come in our midst to foment
religious. discord, and he should be
drummed out of the State!
Is this war to be won by non-Catholics
alone? If so, why are not Waldron and
his co-conspirators under the colors to-
day? Oh, bless you, no! They think
too much of their precious slacker hides,
but, like cowardly curs, bark at the heels
of the more than 540 St. Mary's Indus-
trial School boys now under the colors?
JOHN R. KING,
Director on the part of the State in
St. Mary's Industrial. School.
Baltimore, March 1./.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.