VISIT TO CHELTENHAM,
Where 224 Colored Youths are Taken
Care Of in Prince George's County.
[Reported for the Baltimore Sun.]
The grand jury of Baltimore yesterday
visited the House of Reformation for Colored
Boys, at Cheltenham, Prince George's county,
Md., to inspect its departments as required
by law. A special car was provided. The
jurymen on the trip were E. A. Gibbs, Geo.
Pagels, David Hutzler, Clinton P. Paine,
George P. Morton, Isanc G. Roberts, George
Berry, Charles H. Weems, Dr. Lawrence
Chabot, Wm. Turnbull. Jacob Hecht, W. L.
Lincoln, Charles B. Knight, Wm. Brown,
Joshua Lynch, David Streett, Lewis Ripple,
John McCart. The party also included Rev..
James Monroe Gilmere, colored, of the M-
E. Church: Rev. James W. Dansburry, col
orod, of Sharp-street M. E. Church, and
David A. Dickinson, John White, James S. 'T.
L. Perry, John G. Gehring.
The shipinents of tobacco and wheat are
now heavy, and some of the jury were sur-
prised to know that a carload of huckleber-
ries and blackberries constituted part of the
heavy freight brought up. Many of the party
were struck with the improvements of the
section since they had last visited it. The farın
consists of 800 acres. There is an adminis.
tration building and four family buildings.
Another family building is almost completed.
At present there are 24 iminates, ranging from
8 to 20 years. Most of them are from Balti-
more, but a number are from Maryland coחו-
tles and from other States. Three are from
United States prisons, their offenses being
violation of the postal laws. The boys form
in military order when going to and from
meals. The grace they chanted at dinner
was a feature. All wear numbers on their
hats which correspond to their register on
the books. 'Three hundred peach trees, an
apple orchard and small fruits give the boys
plenty of summer luxuries.
After a substantial dinner Mr. W. L. Lin-
coin, vice-president of the institution, cave
its history. Mr. Pratt's gift of the 800 acres was
vaued at $32.000. Mr. Geo. Pagels spoke of
the advancement of the colored race by the
efforts of Marylanders, and the great benefits
of the institution. Rors. Gilmere and Dans-
burry in forcible speeches expressed theirap-
preciation of what the reformatory was ac-
complishing, and spoke of the good feelings
engendered in the colored people by the
development of such interest in them. Mr.
David Hutzlerresponded to the toast, "Enoch
Pratt." Mr. Isalah Waggner, the superin-
tendent, in response to a toast gave a detailed
account of the management of the boys and
the place, which produced frequent applause:
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.