SOME COUNTY INSTITUTIONS.
Mr. G. S. Griffith's Observations in Prince
George's and Howard Counties.
[Reported for the Baltimore Sun.]
G. S. Griffith, president of the Maryland
Prisoners' Aid Association, visited on October
3 and 4 the jails and almshouses of Prince
George's and Howard counties, also the
House of Reforination and Instruction for
Colored Boys at Cheltenham. He writes to
THE SUN, giving his observations, as follows
"The jail at Upper Marlboro' is a two-story
brick building with ten cells, containing at
this time 12 prisoners, one a white man,
charged with stealing two mules and a wagon,
the others colored; two are women, one
insane, the other for drunkenness and dis-
orderly conduct. Two were boys between
thirteen and fifteen years of age, one of these
on charge of felonious assault. Six were
for larceny, and the others for minor
offenses. Since the 1st of January 47 prison-
ers have been committed to this jail. The
sanitary condition was by no means good,
and when I spoke to the prisoners about
keeping things clean and neat, they
said they would willingly to do so it
plenty of soap and water were given them.
Bedsteads and mattresses are also greatly
needed, as the floors, being of brick and
cement, are very cold, especially in damp
weather. The scanty amount of bedding with
which they were supplied is, msutheient and
very dirty. I spoke very freely to the keeper
in regard to the condition of the building and
the necessity of applying to the county com-
missioners for the needed articles. All of
the prisoners were awaiting trial, and as
every man should be regarded as innocent
until proved guilty. he should be treated
with more consideration. Indeed, cominon
humanity demands that no prisoner should
have his health injured by confining him in a
cold. damp cell, without even a sufficient
amount of bedding. Only a day or two pre-
vious to my visit a man who had been incar-
cerated for three months sunply on sus-
picion was released without uial by order
of the judge, as there was no evidence
against him. I earnestly trust that the
county commissioners will give this jail their
immediate attention. The prisoners seemed
to appreciate my visit very highly, also the
books and advice I gave them, thanking me
again and again, and saying that I was the
onty one who ever thought to come and give
them any religious instruction or encourage-
ment to lead a better life. The churches
both in this and other counties very rightly
and coinmendably take up collections to send
the gospel to the heathen, but should they
neglect these worse than heathen in their
very midst. Shall it be said of us. "Sick and in
prison, and ye visited me not?"
me
"The almshouse is a two-story, substantial
brick buiging on a farin of 90 acres, bout
eight mites from Upper Marlboro", very dif-
ficult of access; indeed, its location is so very
obscure that the driver of our carriage lost
his way twice before he could find the place.
An institution of this kind should be within
two or three miles of the county town, so that
a physician and others who would take an
interest in this unfortunate class might have
free access to the place. The main building is
occupied by the faintly of the superintendent
and the white paupers, and was ina tolerably
good sanitary condition. The frame building,
containing two rooms 14 by 11 feet, one for
male the other for female inmates, and de-
voted to the use of the colored, is a disgrace
and reproach to the county. The institution
contains at this time 15 paupers, during
the winter the average number is 20.
Six of these were white, nine colored and str
insane or imbecile. Into these two small rooins
all the colored paupers are crowded, the old,
blind, sick and heipress with the insane. One
of the men was suffering from a very offer.-
sive disease, which rendered the air of the
100m not only unpleasant and impure, but
very unhealthy for the others. The inmates
ate obliged to eat their food holding itin
their hands, as the rooms do not contain a
table; indeed they are not even supplied
with benches or chairs, a few old boxes serv-
ingas beats, and this seems very hard when
we take into consideration that the majority
of these inmates are either blind or very old
and feeble. Even when one ales they are
compelled to keep the body in the same
room with the living until it can be buried.
They complained bitterly of their neglected
condition, also of the food given them, which.
from what I saw of it and their
manner of serving, was not very ap-
petizing. An eficient matron would greatly
improve the condition of things. Anadditional
building is absolutely necessary, for the
superintendent himself informed
that at times he had been compelled to put
as many as ten paupers in one of these small
rooms. A suitable building, where one of the
rooms could be used asa hospital and another
devoted exclusively to the insane, could be
erected at a cost of from $800 to $1,000, and I
sincerely trust that the county commissioners
will give this matter their favorable consid-
eration. I met Mr. Duvali, one of the board
of trustees, and spoke to him about the insti-
tution. He acknowledred its bad condition,
and said that he had gone before the county
commissioners with a petition for a new
building, but had not been successful. I
wrote to the county commissioners, and
earnestly trust that the needed building will
be erected. A prohibitory law was passed in
Prince George's county, but I regret to say
that it is not rigidly enforced, but stands
upon their statute-books a dead letter. I even
learned in this visit that the jail-keeper is also
bartender for the hotel.
HOWARD COUNTY.
"I visited the Howard county jail, accom-
panied by Rev. Louis F. Zinkhan. We found
only two prisoners; the one, a negro, will be
tried for murder; the other, a tramp, for an
assault on a lady. The case of the former
will be removed to Baltimore; the latter will
have to wait for his trial until the spring term
of court in March. The grand jury meets and
the court sits but twice a year, so that a pris-
oner must wait from one to six months be-
fore he can have his trial and his guilt or in-
nocence be established. The number of pris-
oners committed to the jail since the first of
January is 132. Many of these were sent to
the House of Correction. The fact is that
Ellicott City sends a much larger proportion
of prisoners to the Correction than any other
city or town in the State. This indicates that
the police and magistrates are wide awake-
possibly too much so. We have known sev-
eral instances within the year of persons
being committed of whom other disposition
should have been made. A man's liberty is
too dear that he should be deprived of it
without just cause; and the State taxes
are sufficiently high without supporting
many prisoners in the Correction, whose only
otrense was sickness and poverty. The police
recoive about 40 cents for every arrest, and
$550 additional if he takes the prisoner to
to the Correction. The inagistrate gets his
fee; the jailer gots $100 for turning the key
on a man, and the State must pay handsomely
for the term of imprisonment. The Howard
county jail is not a safe building; besides it
has no chimney, and is not properly con-
structed to be thoroughly ventilated..
HOUSE OF REFORMATION FOR COLORED BOYS.
"The members of the school cominittee, Mr.
Wm. L. Lincoln, Mr. J. H. Lee and myself
went to the House of Reformation and In-
struction for Colored Boss at Cheltenham,
and examined the four schools. We found
that the boys were making satisfactory prog-
ress in their studies. The institution con-
tains 227 boys, all actively engaged in work,
some in the tailor and shoe departments, and
others in caning chairs. The sanitary coudi-
tion was excellent, under the efficient super-
intendence of Mr. Josiah Wagener, and the
general health of the inmates good.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.