MINISTERS FAVOR DRAFT
Dr. Miller Declares For System In
Address To Presbytery.
A tribute to mothers who give their
sons to their country's cause was paid
by the Rev. Dr. Henry W. Miller, mod-
erator, last night at the opening of the
three hundred and twenty-eighth stated
meeting of the Presbytery of Baltimore.
The meeting is being held at Faith
Presbyterian Church and will be brought
to a close tonight. The following offi-
cers were elected at the opening session:
Stated clerk. the Rev. Dr. Henry Branch:
permanent clerk, the Rev. T. L. Spring-
er. and temporary clerk. the Rev. A. B.
Caldwell, assistant minister of the First
Presbyterian Church.
In his address Dr. Miller said that
the mothers who sent their sons to the
front were heroines, who made the great-
est of all contributions to their country.
Dr. Miller said he was heartily in fa-
vor of the selective draft, as he believed
in an "equitable sharing in responsibility
and an efficient distribution of ability."
He said that society should see that jus-
tice placed a heavy hand upon the
"slacker." For the pacifist, who was
conscientiously opposed to war, thespeak-
er declared, he had sympathy, but for the
one who was a pacifist through coward-
ice he had only scorn.
At a meeting yesterday morning of
the Presbyterian Ministers' Association
many of the members spoke in favor of
the selective draft. Among the speak-
ers were the Revs. Dr. Alfred H. Barr,
Dr. DeWitt M. Benham, J. S. Conning
and Edward II. Kestler.
Training Negro Boys For Service.
One hundred negro boys from the
House of Reformation at Cheltenham.
Prince George's county. are being trained
for service in the army or navy, in re-
sponse to the President's call for vol-
unteers. Also 120 acres of land have
been given over to the raising of vege-
tables for the sustenance of Uncle
Sam's warriors. Gen. Thomas J. Shry-
ock is president of the institution and
John B. Pyles the superintendent.
Cardinal Visits Ill Pastor.
The condition of the Rev. Francis P.
Doory, pastor of St. Michael's Catholic
Church, who was taken to Merey Hos-
pital Sunday, remained unchanged last
night. There is only slight hope now
for his recovery. Cardinal Gibbons and
the priests of St. Martin's household all
visited him. Many other priests and
Catholic laymen stopped at the hospital
to learn his condition and to leave mes-
sages of sympathy.
Dr. Frank Reeves Released.
Dr. Frank Reeves, graduate of Johns
Hopkins University. was released yes-
terday from the custody of the West
Virginia authorities, by whom he was
arrested last week in Charleston. A
dispatch to THE SUN from that city
says that although complete maps were
in his possession showing the Kanawha
oil field. no evidence that he had any
illegal purpose in view was obtainable.