TRIALS AND TRIBULATIONS.
-
Suit for Divorce-The B. and M. Tele-
graph Company-Visit to Cheltenham,
「Reported for the Baltimore Sun.l
The grand jury of the United States Dis-
trict Court yesterday found presentments
against Peter Smith and John F. Garrett for
presenting fraudulent claims against the
United States government.
SUIT FOR DIVORCE.
The hearing was begun before Judge
Fisher, but not concluded, in the case of
Abraham Podrobirrick vs. Sheba Leah Po ro-
birrick, bill for divorce a vinculo matrimonii.
The complainant states in bis bill that they
were married in Russia, thirteen years ago.
He alleges that on account of her cruel treat-
ment he left her three years ago and came to
this country, with a view of procuring a
divorce on the ground of abandonment for
more than three years. Martin Lehmayer is
solicitor for defendant and John W. Simpson
for complainant.
BANKERS AND MERCHANTS' TELEGRAPH со.
After brief argument in the City Circuit
Court, Judge Fisher signed an order in the
case of Francis P. Stevens vs. the Bankers
and Merchants' Telegraph Company, rat-
ifying the auditor's account and directing
the United Lines Telegraph Company to
bring into court the sum of $10,653 94, so that
that amount, with interest from yesterday,
with costs, be paid over to Wm. A. Dunn for
services rendered and money advanced the-
company. The exceptions filed in the case
were overruled. Other claims against the
company to the amount of $4,200 were
allowed.
DEED OF ASSIGNMENT.
In the Superior Court was filed a deed of
assignment from Alfred R. McAlba to John
W. H. Frey, for the benefit of creditors.
Also the bond of the trustee for $3.000, with
Wm. S. Tavlor and Geo. B. Creamer sureties.
THE CONTESTED WILL CASE.
In the contested will case of August Elias
Herwig, deceased, on trial in the City Court
before Judge Brown and a jury, the tes-
timony for the caveator, August Emil Her-
wig, son of the testator, was concluded, and
nine witnesses examined for the defendant
executrix Mrs. Mary E. Keller. The tes-
timony will be resumed today.
BEFORE COMMISSIONER ROGERS.
John Perry, arrested a few days ago by the
police authorities for having in his posses-
sion United States stamps and offering
them for sale, was taken before Commis-
sioner Rogers, who committed him for a
hearing tomorrow at noon, on a charge of
breaking into and robbing the postoffice at
Ilchester. Howard county.
VISIT TO CHELTENHAM.
The grand jury visited the Colored House!
of Reformation, at Cheltenham, yesterday.!
A special car was tendered by the Baltimore
and Potomac Railroad. The Rev. L. F. Zink-
han and Rev. W. P. Ryder and three of the
managers of the institution, Mr. G. S. Grif-
fith, George J. Zimmerman and C. Boehm
accompanied the jurymen. They were re-
ceived by the superintendent. Isaiah Wagner,
and shown through the institution, which the
jurymen say is conducted in a very satisfac-
tory manner as to industry, comfort and
cleanliness. The boys are engaged in farm-
ing, shoemaking, tailoring and chair-caning.
All the clothing used is made by the boys.
Speeches were made at the repast by Gen. R.
H. Carr, George R. Coffroth, Assistant Fore-
man Grand Jury G. W. Lester, Geo. J. Zim-
merman, L. M. Hamline, Rev. W. P. Ryder
and Rev. L. F. Zinkhan. Major Dryden and
The boys sang songs.
SEEKING DAMAGES FOR ASSAULT.
The jury of the Court of Common Pleas
before whom was tried the case of S. E.
Bromwell vs. Samuel Barth, to recover $1,000
for alleged assault, failed to agree on a ver-
dict and were discharged from consideration
of the case. The case was submitted at 2.30
P. M. Wednesday, and they remained out all
night.