CITIZENS PROTEST HOLD-UPS
Resolutions Are Adopted And Mar-
shal Carter Speaks.
Twenty-five mon gathered at Clag-
gett's Hall, 614 North Fremont avenue,
last night, to protest against the many
bold-ups in the city within the past few
weeks. Among those present were men
whose families had been victims of the
robbers, or who had merely seen hold-
ups/take place. Marshal Carter was
there and spoke.
A resolution was passed asking the
city authorities to call upon the citizens
of Baltimore to help preserve order;
urging that the various city depart-
ments, particularly the Department of
Lamps and Lighting, co-operate with the
Police Department; demanding that
criminals convicted convicted of "crimes against
the person" be compelled to serve full
sentences and not be paroled; urging
the increase of the police force, and call-
ing for a committee to go before the
Board of Estimates to ask for money
enough to increase it
George H.-Sohl, president of the
Harlem Improvement Association, which
called the mecting, asked for volunteers
to compose this committee, and about a
half-dozen responded. William Nord-
hoff, whose wife was shot by a negro
in front of her home several weeks ago,
was the first to volunteer.
Marshal Carter repeated much of the
talk he made to the City Club last Sat-
urday, adding that the police force was
much handicapped by having to do out-
side work for the Health Department
and other departments.
CAUGHT BREAKING INTO HOME
Calligan Pulled Out Of Window And
Held Until Ponceman Arrives,
Caught breaking into the home of
George A. Schlund. 2600 Fleet street,
Dennis Calligan. 41 years old, was
overpowered by two citizens last night
and held a prisoner until Patrolman
Brady, of the Eastern district, arrived.
Joseph Maxwell, 529 South Luzerne
avenue, saw Calligan disappear in an
alley alongside the Schlund home.
Maxwell waited a few minutes and
walked across the alley, He saw Callı-
gan halfway in a side window. Running
to the man, Maxwell caught him by one
leg and pulled him out. Crics of "Po-
lice!" brought other citizens, and Calli-
gan, was hustled to the light of a street
lamp.
According to Lieutenant Lastner, of
the Eastern Police Station, Calligan has
a police record, He will have a hearing
today before Justice Gerecht on the
charge of felonious entry.
Negro Boys Committed For Hold-Ups
Adolph Byrd, colored, 15 years old,
253 North Bruce street. who held up
Harry Volkmar, a little white boy, last
Saturday and robbed him of some but-
ter, was sent to the Colored House of
Reformation at Cheltenham yesterday by
Judge Williams, in the Juvenile Court.
The boy will remain in the institution
until he is 21 jears old, unless released
sooner for good behavior. The "hold-
up" occurred on Fayette near Gilmore
street.
Charles Kennard, colored, 13 years old,
who held up two colored girls at the
point of a pistol, was also sent to Chel-
tenham by Judge Williams until he is
21 years old. The "hold-up" occurred
Sunday at the corner of Gilmor and Lan-
vale streets.
Stole Automobile Tire.
A bold thief entered the hardware
store of John A. Goeppner. 101-103
North Potomac street, yesterday moru-
ing and when clerks were busy waiting
on customers the thief picked up a new
automobile tire valued at $15 and
walked out. Helf an hour later Goepp-
mer discovered his loss and telephoned
to the Northeastern Police Station. The
police have 110 clue to the thief's
identity.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.