ALLEGED ROBBER 6 YEARS OLD
Judge
Williams
Sends Accused
Housebreaker Home.
Because of his extreme youth, Domi-
nick Skirman, 6 years old, 1534 Green-
mount avenue, was dismissed yesterday
by Judge Williams, in the Juvenile
Court, when arraigned on the charge of
housebreaking. The boy was the small-
est and youngest alleged robber ever in
the court. His extreme youth placed
him beyond the jurisdiction of the
court.
Otis Jones and William Rice. both
colored and 11 years old, 436 and 446
Federal street. charged with the same
offense, were sent to the Colored House
of Reformation at Cheltenham until
September 3. The three boys, it was
alleged, entered the unoccupied dwell-
ing 209 East Preston street last Satur-
day and stole window screens and other
articles worth $11.50.
ASKS $20,000 FOR INJURIES
Mrs. Mary Busilik Lifted Into Air
By Pavement Doors.
For injuries alleged to have been re-
ceived on July 15. when she was sud-
denly hoisted into the air and thrown
to the pavement by the cellar doors in
front of the store of Dowell, Helm &
Co.. wholesale millinery and cloak
dealers, 117 and 119 West Baltimore
street, opening under her, Mrs. Mary
Busilik sued the firm for $20.000 dam-
ages in the Superior Court yesterday,
through Isaac Lobe Straus. attorney.
It was the sidewalk elevator in the
cellar that opened the doors as Mrs.
Busilik was passing over them. It is
alleged that she was thrown violently
to the pavement.
JURY RAPS CAR SERVICE
Exonerates Motorman Of Blame For
Death Of W. H. Cheesman.
A jury summoned by Coroner Grem-
pler at the Southern Police Station last
evening to investigate the death of Wil-
liam H. Cheesman, Jr., who was killed
in front of his home, 1703 Light street,
Saturday by a Light street car, exon-
erated the motorman, Frederick Shelby,
from all blame. The jury addressed a
letter to the United Railways and Elec-
tric Company making several recom-
mendations regarding the service on the
Light street line.
The letter, which was signed by the
jury, read as follows: "We, the un-
dersigned, recommend better service on
the Light and Orleans street car line.
As regards the cars on that line, we
know they are unfit for service. We
also desire that some care be exercised
in running between Cross and Wells
streets, especially when passengers are
standing on the footboards, as we regard
this section as dangerous to the general
public because of the narrow space be-
tween the tracks and the curb."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.