East Berlin And Abbottstown Are
The Purchasers.
York, Pa., July, 24.- Residents of
East Berlin and Abbottstown have pur-
chased the East Berlin Railroad and it
will be put into operation and run the
same as heretofore.
The consideration is said to be ahout
$8,000. The purchase was made from
William B. Himes, of New Oxford, th
receiver, by D. E. Brandt, U. L. Glat-
felter, Samuel Showers and Dr. T. C.
Miller. It had been threatened to send
the railroad to the junk heup unless the
residents of East Berlin bought it for
a consideration of $30,000. Part of the
roadbed had already been torn up.
DAMAGED FOUNTAIN, IS UNAKUL
noy
ALCAVALUEWA J
For Further Hearing.
Signor Aurella, 12 years old, 413 For-
rest street, was committed to St. Mary's
Industrial School yesterday by Judge
Williams, in the Juvenile Court, for a
further hearing on September 10 on the
charge of mutilating the Fallsway foun-
tain at the corner of Guilford avenue
and Biddle street. It was alleged that
the boy did considerable damage to the
fountain on July 18 by attempting to
remove the metal work with a pair of
pliers. He was said to be a runaway
who could not be kept at home.
Earl Holden, colored, 14 years old,
1651 East Monument street, may go to
Cheltenham on the charge of stealing
five gas brackets from an unoccupied
house belonging to C. E. Mass, 921 East
Madison street. The offense was com-
mitted last Friday. Judge Williams, in
the Juvenile Court, yesterday postponed
the hearing of the case until August 31.
An investigation will be made in the
meantime.
Reports Diamond Ring Stolen.
Edward B. Lynch, 2044 Orleans
street, who is employed by the Balti-
more Optical Company, Park avenue
and Saratoga street, reported yester-
das to the police of the Western dis-
trict that a diamond ring valued at $68
had been stolen from his pocket during
the morning. He said he had left the
ring in his coat when he changed his
clothes before going to work, and when
he left at lunch time discovered that
it had disappeared.
Hammer's Victim Critically Ill.
Horace Jones, 45 years old, of 407
South Stricker street, who was struck
with a sledge hammer Friday after-
noon by a fellow-workman, James F.
Herrick, 61 years old, 510 10 North Ma-
deira street, was reported to be in a
critical condition at St. Joseph's Hos-
pital yesterday. Jones accidentally
thrust his head under the sledg
sledge as
Herric's was driving a blow. Both men
were working for the City Engineer's
Department.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.