THE GRAND JURY REPORT,
Observations as to Sunday Liquor and
Election Law Violations
[Reported for the Baltimore Sun.1
The grand jury for the January term mado
its final report in the Criminal Court on Sat
day and was, finally discharged, with the
thanks of the court. The new grand jury
will be called today. The report is as follows:
Hon. Edward Duffy, Judge of the Criminal
Court: The grand jury of the State of Mary-
land for the body of the city of Baltimore
for the January term, 1887, having arrived at
the close of their term, make respectful
report of the nature and extent of their
labors: They have held sessions 91 days and
disposed of 1,280 cases; found 686 present-
ments and dismissed 594; 3,635 witnesses woro
examined. They have been mindful of the
charge of your honor, at the beginning of the
term, to give attention to certain statutes
which come under the head of criminal
offenses. They have met with no charge of
selling or advertising medicines or medical
instruments for the purpose of procuring
abortion, and draw, therefore, the happy in-
ferenco that such crimes are of less frequency
than might possibly have been apprehended.
It is also gratifying to state that there has not
been a single charge of default of public
moneys, and but one accusation of prevent-
ing free egress and ingress from and to public
buildings. The jury, as required by law,
have visited in a body the penitentiary and
jail, and found those institutions in a cleanly
and orderly condition, and managed in an
able and systematic manner, as will appear
by the reports of the committees submitted
herewith. The managers have also visited
the House of Correction, Bayview and Spring
Grove Asylums, the House of Refuge, the
House of Correction for Colored Boys at
Cheltenham, the House of the Good Shep-
herd and St. Mary's Industrial School. All
appeared in the main satisfactory at theso
institutions, as will be shown by the reports
of the several committees.
The jury investigated a large number of
chargos of violation of the Sunday liquor
law, but the presentments were compara-
tively fow because of the lack of evidence.
The police were directed to report the names
of persons who may have visited saloons on
Sunday, as far as they could be ascertained,
but the character of the witnesses sum-
moned, for good or evil, precluded, in many
instances, the presentment of the proprie-
tors, whether the truth was or was not elic-
ited. Many claimed that they went habit-
ually to saloons or restaurants for meals on
Sunday, and neither partook themselves nor
did they see others partake of intoxicating
drink; others paid social visits to the proprie-
tors' families to take their children to Sun-
day-school, or for other innocent or praise-
worthy purposes, whilst the character and
condition of others indicated that their visits
were not so innocuous, although they assev-
erated they knew nothing of the infraction
of the law. It is the opinion of the jury that
if it be possible to secure witnesses other
than the several classes mentioned the balo-
ful trafhe could be much abated if not en-
tirely suppressed. In connection with the
cases of selling liquor on Sunday, the penalty
for the second offense being greater, the jury
found it could only be indicated on a pre-
sontment after considerable time and labor
employed in searching the records of the
court, until they were furnished with an
alphabetical list of the convictions covering
several years past. They would recommend
the preservation of this important list, either
for the use of future grand juries or for easy
and speedy reference in court.
The jury, in common with all citizens who
value their birthright, deem the preserva-
tion of the inviolability of the ballot-box
unequivocally essential to prevent their
boasted freedom from becoming a mockery,
a delusion, "a tale told by an idiot." In
approaching, therefore, cases of violation of
the election laws (brought invariably by prı-
vate citizens) they, representing perhaps every
degree of political opinion in the community,
not only determined to investigate such cases
entirely freed from partisan bias, but did so.
They found a number of presentiments, and
from the testimony before them, both oral
and written, they feel constrained to agree
with their immediato predecessors that some
of the election ofhcers displayed either ignor-
ance of their high duties, or what the jury
rezard as its equivalents-treachery and cor-
ruption. It is earnestly hoped that the
statutes may be so remodeled as to better
accomplish the prevention as well as the
detection and punishment of fraud.
Strict attention and earnest investigation
have been given to alleged violations of the
law regarding gaming and lotteries, espe-
cially policy-writing, resulting in a number of
presentments, which were promptly made
whenever it was possible to secure proper
evidence. With continued and increased
vigilance on the part of the police, it is be-
lieved these serious evils may be effectually
stamped out.
Various complaints were made of infrac-
tions of the insurance laws, which are said
to prevail. In some cases presentments were
found, and in others manifest evasions of the
law were exhibited. The Legislature is
urged to make such modification of the stat-
utes as will prevent these evasions, in justico
to the many citizens legitimately engaged in
this important and honorable business.
The attention of the court is respectfully
called to the inadequate accommodation for
witnesses awaiting their calls for examina-
tion. The space in the ante-room is too con-
tracted for the large numbers sometimes
summoned, and the offices for the male and
female witnesses are separated only by a
thin partition, the top to which is several
feet below the ceiling. It is recommended
that this may be corrected in the near future.
The grand jury take occasion to tender
their sincere thanks for the able, kind and
courteous assistance in the work received
from the court, the State's attorney, the
clerk and their assistants and deputies. Re-
spectfully submitted.
HENRY C. WAGNER, Foreman.
Baltimore, May 7, 1887.
The committee on the House of the Good
Shepherd found the institution in excellent
condition, and they feel that it is impossible to
say too much in commendation of its useful-
ness or the efficiency of its management. The
number of inmates is about 270, many of them
reclaimed waifs of tender age. The total
number of inmates received since the open-
ing, August 6, 1864, is 1,398 Of these 883 were
returned to their friends, 231 left of their own
accord, 86 died, and 193 remain at present.
The number committed was 338; released, 209;
at present committed, 69. None committed
are ever refused, although the meawre ap-
propriation of the State is soon exhausted.
It is recommended that the appropriation, for
rially increased.
the sake of justice and humanity, be mate-
The committee on the penitentiary report
that it is remarkably cleanly and boro ovi-
dences of discipline and general good gov-
ernment. The contract for shoes having ex-
pired, it has necessarily thrown some 150 of
the convicts out of employment, but your
committee have no doubt that Warden Horu
will soon find employment for those men.
The committee on the jail report that it is
in good order, and has 414 prisoners well
cared for.
The reports of the various committees
highly commend the management of the
House of Refuge, Bayview Asylum, Spring
Grove Asylum, the Colored House of Refor-
mation at Cheltenham, the House of Correc-
tion and St. Mary's Industrial School.
The names of the retiring grand jurors are
as follows: Henry C. Wagner, T. Burling
Hull, Robert W. Hays, John Meeth, Thomas
K. Turner, William Brown, John T. Bishop,
Asa Needham, George R. Callis, Elias Rosen-
baum, Jr., James S. Allison, Sr., Christopher
C. Speed, Alexander R. Barrow, George A.
Reed, William J. Gray, Jesso V. Ely, Bonja-
nmin F. Clark, John P. Merritt, Jacob H.
Timanus, William F. C. Gerhardt, Frank H.
Kampe, Jas. R. Seager, Delaware C. Thomas.
Just before the final adjournment Mr.
Henry C. Wagner, the foreman, was presented
by the grand jury with a beautiful silver
water service, consisting of a swinging
pitcher, goblets and slop bowl. Mr. George
A. Reed made the presentation speech, and
Mr. Wagner responded gracefully, although
taken completely by surprise. Mr. Wm. F.
U. Gerhardt, secretary, was presented on be-
half of the grand jury with a gold-headed
cane, and Mr. George A. Reed, presentment
clerk, with a gold pen and pencil case.
The grand jury found the following indict-
monts: Geo Sullens, John Caton and Thomas
Derwin, judges of election of the second
precinct of the second ward; Jacob Stern-
hoim, Martin J. Clark, Henry Gado, judges,
and Hezekiah S. Best and John W. McMahon,
clerks of election of the second precinct of
the thirteenth ward: John C. Cavano and
John J. Wilson, clerks, and Chas. Schultz,
Jas. B. Yeakle and Frank Guildner, judges of
election of the ninth precinct of the tenth
ward, violation of the election laws. They
also indicted William Armstrong for em-
bezzlement of $200 from the Firemen's
Insurance Company November 8, 1886; $7,000
on February 1, 1887, and $4,350 January 1, 1887.
John D. Lisle was indicted for embezzling
$80,000 from the First National Bank of Balti-
more.
The following indictments were drawn by
the State's attorney and sent in to the grand
inquest, but were returned to the court by
that body unacted on: Charles Innes, lottery;
Jacob Castelberg, perjury; Joseph Castelberg
and Jacob Castelberg, conspiracy to defraud;
Patrick J. Kenny, Patrick Wallace, Tilgh-
man H. Blakeley, Thomas J. Nolan and John
R. Delaney, judges and clerks of election of
the second precinct of the tonth ward, con-
spiracy to defraud at the municipal election.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.