BURNT KNEE THREATENS LIFE
Thomas Robinson, 56 Years Old, Is
In Serious Condition.
From a burn he received December
18, Thomas Robinson, 56 years old,
2208 Ashton street, is in a critical con-
dition at Franklin Square Hospital.
Robinson, who lived with his sister,
Mrs. Mary F. Lentz, was asleep on a
chair in the kitchen and fell from it
against a stove. He sustained a burn
on his knee which he did not at first
consider serious. After treating it him-
self for some time he found that it
was rapidly becoming worse and called
in Dr. Walter A. Cox, 54 South Fulton
avenue.
The physician found that blood
poisoning had developed from the burn
and immediately ordered Robinson to
go to the hospital. An operation was
performed in an effort to save his life,
but the infection, it is feared, has ob-
tained too strong a hold on him.
SMOKER STARTS A FIRE
Excelsior In Flames At Pratt And
Charles Street.
Fire was discovered early last night
in the shop of Philip Lindemeyer, prin-
ter and stationer, on the fourth floor
of the Bass Building, Pratt and Charles
streets. The blaze was in a mass of ex-
celsior, and supposedly originated_from
a spark of a cigarette or pipe. Little
damage was done.
A passerby saw smoke pouring from
the window and ran in and notified
Samuel Bass, owner of the building, and,
while a third man sounded the alarm,
Bass and his employes helped put out
the fire.
SUNDERLAND AUTO HITS BOY
Cheltenham Home Agent
Victim To Hospital.
Takes
Struck by an automobile belonging to
Benjamin B. Sunderland, visiting agent
of the Cheltenham Home for Colored
Boys. Michael E. Sadler, 7 years old,
who lives with a brother at 315 South
Fulton avenue, was thrown to the
ground late yesterday afternoon and
sustained lacerations of his side and
scalp. The accident occurred at Balti-
more street and Carrollton avenue.
Mr. Sunderland, who has an office
with the E. Stabler, Jr., Coal Company,
Eutaw and Madison streets, was going to
his home, Frederick and Seminole ave-
nues, when the child ran across the
street directly in the path of the ma-
chine. He was picked up by Mr. Sun-
derland and taken to Franklin Square
Hospital.
BAD FOR CURTIS BAY CHANNEL
Senate Subcommittee Decides To
Exclude Amendments.
The River and Harbor Subcommittee
of the Senate Committee on Commerce,
which has before it the House River
and Harbor Appropriations bill, late
yesterday decided to exclude all amend-
ments to the House measure which pro-
vide for new projects, says a dispatch
from THE SUN'S Washington Bureau.
This action, if adhered to by the Sen-
ate, destroys all hope of amending the
House bill so that the Curtis Bay im-
provement can be taken care of at this
session should Congress finally pass an
omnibus waterway appropriations bill.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.