THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
Charles Washington Acquitted of Cutting
the Throats of the Layton Children,
[Correspondence of the Baltimore sun.j
ELLICOTT CmY, MD., Sept. 12-The un-
usual interest that was manifested in the
trial of the colored boy, Charles Washington,
which commenced here yesterday, for the
murder of little Beulah Layton, and the at-
tempted murder of her sister Sadie, at the
home of their parents, in the fourth district
of Howard county, in June last, had not sub-
sided today. When the judges and other
court officials proceeded to the court-room
to resume court, they had to elbow their way
through the dense crowd which had already
Assembled
witness the progres8 of
the case. As soon as Judges Miller, Jones
and Smith had taken their seats, the
prisoner was led to the seat in front
of the jury which he had occupied yesterday.
Baker Bowie, the colored man who was in
the employ of Mr. Layton, and at work in the
field with him at the time the crime was com-
mitted, was the first witness this morning.
His testimony differed from that of Mr. Lay-
ton in several material points. He said he
accused the boy of the deed, but the boy de-
aled it, and said a big white man did it, and
ran soross the Beld away from the house.
Bowie aaid he measured the track of the
supposed murderer. He found a blanket in
Layton's kitchen with evidences that it had
been used to wipe up blood.
to
Mr. Mortimer Crapster, a prominent farmer
of the neighborhood, was the next witness
called. He testified that the boy said he saw
a man leaving the house while he was re-
turning from the spring, and said he resem-
bled Baker Bowie,
Mary Washington, mother of the prisoner,
testified as to his age. She said he was ten.
After the evidence of Mrs. Davis, a neigh-
bor of Mr.Layton, Justice Owings, Sherif
Day, Dr. S. A. Keene, Warden Lilly of the
jail, and Deputy Sheriff Vausant, the State
closed its testimony.
The defense offered no evidence and stated
its willingness to here rest the case. State's
Attorney McGuire opened on the part of the
State, and made a strong argument to prove
the responsibility and guilt of the boy. Mr.,
Hammond opened for the defense, and was
followed by Mr. Wootton, his colleague.
Their line of argument was the doubtful tes-
timous on the part of the state and the irre-
sponsibility of the prisoner. The case was
given to the jury at balf-past 2 o'clock, and a
verdict of "not guilty" was returned in about
baif an hour. After the verdict of the jury,
which was a great surprise, was returned, the
State's attorney, the boy's mother and bis
grandmother went before Justice Cooke and
made the necessary atidavits to commit the
prisoner to the Colored Reformatory School,
at Cheltenham, Prince George's county. Fol-
lowing are the jurymen who sat in the case:
Joseph H. Leishsar, foreman, G. Butke,
Thomas H. Hunt, L. N. Getz, Saml. C. Hearn,
James P. Hastup, William McKensie, Henry
C. Griffith, O. H. Mercer, John Hodges, Jas.
R. Trimble and Joseph Smallwood.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.