YEAR FOR PAPER THIEVES
Negro Boys Sentenced To Chelten-
ham For Stealing Sun-
day Suns.
A year each in Cheltenham was the sen-
tence given two newspaper thieves by
Judge Elliott, and in passing sentence he
declared that the business of stealing
newspapers from the doors of subscribers
had to be broken up and that he would
deal severely with any offenders con-
victed before him. State's Attorney Broen-
ing has instructed his department to push
all such cases vigorously, and Marshal
Farnan has been making a special ef-
fort through the Police Department to
check the widespread evil.
Eugene Hall and Oliver Strand, both
colored and each 18 years of age, were
the boys in this case. They were caught
stealing Sunday Suss on the route owned
by D. W. Snyder in West Baltimore and
held for court by Justice Henry, Police-
man N. J. Carr appearing as the officer in
the case. They, with others, had been
systematically taking papers after de-
Hvery by the carrier. Mr. Snyder set five
sub-carriers and as many private detec-
tives to catch them, and when seen at
work the negroes gave their pursuers a
hot chase. Strand escaped for the time.
Hall. cornered in an alley, drew a knife
and threatened to use it, but was over-
powered.
Juveniles have generally been paroled
and older thieves given nominal sentences
or paroled in cases of newspaper steal-
ing, the small money value of a newspa-
paper having an influence on the action.
But recently in East Baltimore a negro
thief drew a revolver and threatened to
kill a carrier, and this boldness has add-
ed a new importance to the petty crime.
In every part of Baltimore recently news-
paper thieves have been persistently op-
erating, and one carrier recently made the
- statement that "a race of criminals is
growing up from the larceny of papers
and milk bottles."
State's Attorney Broening has recently
had Detective Werner working on the
problem of breaking up newspaper steal-
ing, and citizens' clothes men of the va-
rious districts several times have been
assigned at points frequented by them.
Now that severe sentences will follow
arrest and conviction there is a prospect
of less boldness.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.