CADETS HELD ON
MURDER CHARGE
William R. Bowlus Dies From
Wound Received In Alleged
Hazing Prank.
T
INVESTIGATION IS BEGUN
Board Of Visitors Holds Heated
Session At St. John's
FACULTY IS UNDER FIRE
1,
Three Of The Accused Freshmen
Arrested And Released On $5,000
Bail-Other Two May Surrender
Today - Body Of Dead Junior
Will Be Taken To Home At Mid-
dletown, Md., Today.
[From a Staff Correspondent.].
Annapolis, Md., May 28. An inves
tigation of the shooting of Cadet Wil-
liam R. Bowlus, of the junior class of
St. John's College, last Monday night
by a member of the freshman class, re-
sulting in Bowlus' death today, was
made by the board of visitors of the
college tonight.
The investigation resulted in some
rather sharp passages between members
of the faculty, who were called before
the board, and the visitors.
It seems that the faculty has rather
limited powers over the discipline of the
school, and their recommendations, par-
ticularly those relating to the dismissal
of students' for hazing, are seldom re-
garded by the board. At the same time
the visitors seem to desire to hold the
faculty responsible for discipline, not-
withstanding that body is not given
authority to enforce it. The rather
potent effort of the visitors tonight to
hold the faculty responsible for the
events which led up to the death of
Cadet Bowlus was the cause of much of
the heat of tonight's investigation.
MAY REORGANIZE FACULTY.
After a prolonged discussion the board
appointed a committee of five to consider-
the question of reorganization of the
faculty of the college while another com.
mittee was appointed to investigate every
phase of the hazing situation. In the
meantime, 12 members of the junior class
were ordered suspended indefinitely.
There was much discussion as to whether
the other eight junfors should share a
similar fate, but it was finally agreed to
retain them on the rolls, inasmuch as there
is no evidence that they participated in
any hazing.
James M. Munroe, of Annapolis, made
the motion providing for a reorganization
of the college. The committee to handle
this subject are the following:
Chairman Moss, Mr. Munroe, Judge
Walter I. Dawkins, of Baltimore; State's
Attorney Nicholas H. Green, of Annapolis,
and former State Senator Joseph II. Bellis,
of Annapolis.
I TWELVE JUNIORS SUSPENDED.
The committee appointed to investigate
hazing and report as to the best methods
of eradicating it is composed of John Ia
Chew, Philemon II. Tuck, of Baltimore;
Nevitt Steele, Daniel R. Randall and State
Comptroller Harrington.
The 12 juniors suspended are: Oliver P.
Winslow, son of Dr. Randolph Winslow,
and J. S. Bowen, of Baltimore; Herbert
Jump, Easton, Md.; J. T. Sadler, Cockeys-
ville, Md.; Daniel E. Walsh, Westminster,
Md.; C. W. Mowbray, Frederick, Md.; R.
R. Ritchie, Lonaconing, Md.; J. E. Selby,
Cheltenham, Md.; A. W. Williams, Prince
Frederick, Md.; W. R. Nelson, Hebron,
Md.; L. D. Fields, Pikesville, Md., and A.
L. Fowler, West Annapolis, Md.
The board directed its secretary, L. Dor
sey Gassaway, to prepare a letter of reso-
lutions to be forwarded to the family of
Cadet Bowlus and a suitable floral design
will also be sent for the funeral tomorrow
afternoon.
PALL OF SORROW OVER COLLEGE.
After lingering for two and a half days
Cadet Bowlus dled at 2 o'clock this after-
noon at Emergency Hospital, where he had
been a patlent since the affray. With his
death a pall, fell over historic St. John's.
The sympathy for the relatives of the dead
lad was general. Nothing so tragic has ever
been visited upon the old college.
By the death of Bowlus the five fresh-
men now out on bail on a charge of assault
with intent to kill are held on the charge
of murder. The warrants were changed ac-
cordingly.
Two of the boys, R. Valdez, a Cuban,
and George H. Weaver, of New York, were
taken late this afternoon and for a time
were lodged in the county jail.
YOUNG MARBURY SURRENDERS.
A third member of the party, Fendall
Marbury, son of William L. Marbury, was
in Baltimore at the time. Accompanied by
his father he came to Annapolis later and
the three were released under $5,000 ball.
The security was furnished by Mr. Mar-
bury, Charles E. Martin, Charles C. Feld-
meyer and Nevett Steele.
The other two boys, J. W. Noble and
Reginald Jones, are at their homes on the
Eastern Shore. They will return here to-
morrow and it is expected they will be
similarly released.
MEETING A SECRET ONE.
. The meeting of the board tonight was
one of the longest that has been held
for a long time. Those who attended it
were Robert Moss, chairman; Comptroller
Harrington, Dr. George Wells, Frank H.
Stockett, Harry J. Hopkins, Nicholas H.
Green, State's Attorney for Anne Arundel;
Bruner, R. Anderson, Philemon H. Tuck,
Joseph H. Bellis, L. D. Gassaway, Dr. W.
G. Ridout, Judge James R. Brashears,
Charles G. Feldmeyer, Judge Walter I.
Dawkins, Nevitt Steele, James M. Munroe,
ex-Judge D. R. Magruder, John L. Chew
and Daniel R. Randall.
Prior to the meeting of the board, Chair-
man Moss was asked whether the meeting
would be an open one.
He replied that he thought not, that
the meetings of the board were always:
private.
"But do you think, in view of the
gravity of the present case, which is to
be, the only matter considered, and in
view of the great public interest in it,
that the meeting should be open?
"No, I do not see it in that light," he
replied.
"We do not desire to shield anyone,
he contſuued, "but I see no reason for an
open meeting. After the meeting we will
give a statement of what occurs. How
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
ever, if you wish, we will take the marter
up and let you know."
The board did take the matter up and
decided that the meeting should be private.
DR. FELL UNABLE TO APPEAR.
The first business was the reading of the
report on the shooting, which was made by
Dr. Fell. In this report he gave a detailed
account of the events leading up to the
-shooting and the shooting itself, as re-
ported to him by the faculty. The board
was anxious to have Dr. Fell appear before
it personally, but he was so overwrought
by the tragedy that he was unable to ap-
pear, although he was on the college cam-
pus about 11 o'clock at night.
The first witness before the board was
Lieut. C. S. McNeill, U. S. A., the com-
mandant of cadets. Lieutenant McNeill
intimated pretty strongly that the system
under which the school is run was respon-
sible for the hazing that has been going
on and he emphatically objected to any
assumption that the faculty was responsi-
ble. He intimated that the methods and
policies of the visitors themselves were to
blame.
According to his story, it seems that
four of the five freshmen who were in the
room from which the shot was fired had
been playing a game of tennis while a ball
game in which the St. John's team was
playing was in progress. A party of jun-
fors notified the "freshies" that they were
not showing the proper college spirit and
that they ought to be out rooting for their
college nine. The "freshies" were ad-
monished not to let such a thing occur
again.
FOUR FRESHMEN "SLATED."
A few days later, when the St. John's
team was playing the Franklin-Marshal!
College team, the same quartet of freshmen
were engaged in a game of tennis. Whether
they did this as a matter of bravado and
defiance of the juniors or just because they
liked tennis was not disclosed. However,
the juniors were incensed, and that night
the four freshmen were visited in their
rooms and "slatted." This means that
they were laid across a chair, face down-
ward and paddled very entrusiastically
with a bed slat, so they were unable to sit
down for a couple of days.
This occurrence was discovered by mem-
bers of the faculty and the juniors responsi-
ble for the slatting were reprimanded.
This reprimand resulted in a class meet-
Ing of the juniors on Monday night. It was
announced at that meeting that one of the
freshmen had "squealed"; that everything
the juniors had done this year was known,
and it was time that the divulging of in-
formation was stopped.
The freshmen heard that the meeting
of the juniors was in progress and they
assembled, determined to resist any attack
that the juniors might make.
FRESHMEN REFUSE
ORDERS.
JUNIORS'
In the meantime the juniors decided to
order the freshman who had been "slatted"
and one other who called down the hall
requesting all freshmen to attend a class
meeting to come before them and to reveal
the name of the boy who had "squcaled."
The freshmen, probably realizing what
would happen to them, refused. Then the
Junior class voted to haze all five of them
again and went out after them.
The freshmen, instead of standing to-
gether, bolted for their rooms in groups,
and the five, Noble, Jones, Valdez, Marbury
and Weaver, all took refuge in Noble's
room. To this room the juniors pursued
them and banged on the locked door, order-
ing the freshmen to open it, under dire pen-
alties. The freshmen refused to open the
door and warned the juniors away, calling
out that it would be dangerous to attempt
to force the door. No attention was paid
to the warning and Bowlus kicked against
the door:
Then came the shot from the inside of
the room which went through the panel
and landed in Bowlus' abdomen. Lieuten-
ant McNeill was of the opinion that the
shot was fired from the middle of the room
and that it had been the intention of the
boy who fired to shoot low, so as to strike
somewhere near the feet of the besiegers.
As he was not familiar with firearms he
could not prevent the throw-up of the pis-
tol when it was discharged and the bullet
went waist-high.
WOULD EXPEL THEM.
The shot was the signal for a great
commotion. Bowlus was carried out by
his companions and laid on the campus.
The five freshmen remaining barricaded
in Noble's room in Pinkney Hall. They
were found there by Lieutenant McNeill.
In his opinion, the shooting was done to
scare away the juniors without injuring
auy of them.
Lieutenant MeNeill was questioned by
some of the visitors on the discipline of
the school. He replied emphatically:
"Discipline is a one-man affair. The
discipline of the school ought to be put in
the control of one man, who should be
given full power and authority to enforce
it. If he cannot do it, you ought to get
someone who can."
In reply to another question as to what
he would do in the matter he replied that
he would expel every junior connected
with the affair and never let them set
foot on the campus again.
JUNIOR PRESIDENT TESTIFIES.
F. A. House, president of the junior
class, told substantially the story as told
by Lieutenant McNeill, although the story
was gotten from him with much more
difficulty. He was recalled later, and in
reply to a question as to whether the haz-
ing of the freshmen was voted on as a
Junfor class matter replied that it had so
been voted on.
Prof. John B. Roppere, vice-president of
the college; Prof. Sydney H. Gunn, Pro-
fessor Shoemaker and other members of
the faculty and some others of the student
body were called before the visitors.
The professors, as a rule, resented any
suggestion that they were responsible for
the conditions how existing in the school
and seemed inclined to make the visitors
take that responsibility upon themselves.
It seems unmistakable that the visitors,
with hardly an exception, are men without
experience as practical educators, although
they insist not only on attending to the
Inancial affairs of the college, which is
their proper and legitimate function, but
of determining what punishment shall be
meted out to offenders against the rules.
POLITICS BROUGHT IN.
It is also intimated that politics plays
too large a part in the functions of the
school and that a student who comes to
St. John's with the backing of a father
who has considerable political influence is
generally immune from any severe punish-
ment for his transgressions. How much
truth there is in these reports cannot be
verified now, but it would seem to be a
good subject for investigation by the Edu-
cational Commission just appointed by
tional survey of the State.
i
Governor Goldsborough to make an educa-
One of the features of tonight's in-
vestigation was an impassioned speech by
Comptroller Harrington, who sald he was
in favor of revising the whole system of
the college and putting matters of dis-
cipline and punishment in full control of
the faculty.
It seems that Mr. Harrington's son was
sent to St. John's last year and was so
severely hazed by the students that Mr.
Harrington took him away, refusing to al-
low his boy to be subjected to such abuse.
He was induced to return him for the
present term, but he is now home on sick
leave.
For a time the sentiment of the board
seemed strongly in favor of suspending or
expelling the whole junior class, but it
was finally decided to suspend only those
directly involved.
The general opinion here is that the
killing of Bowlus will result in a complete
reorganization of the college and certainly
the adoption of drastic and effective means
for abolishing all forms of hazing.
NOBLE OWNED PISTOL, REPORT.
It is reported about town that the pistol
from which the fatal shot was fired was the
property of Cadet Noble. It is rather
significant that in the new warrants issued
der, they are drawn against J. W. Noble
for the freshmen charging them with mur-
and others. State's Attorney Green, of
Anne Arundel county, on whom the prosecu-
tion of the boys will fall, is a member
of
the college board of visitors and took a
prominent part in the questioning of those
who were called before the board tonight.
It is not believed, however, that the
cases against the freshmen will ever come
to trial. In the first place, it is not be-
lieved that in view of all the circumstances
in the case the grand jury will bring in
an indietment against them or, even if it
should do so, that a court jury would con-
vict any of them.
No steps have been taken for the hold-
ing of a coroner's jury and it is planned
to take the body of Cadet Bowlus to the
home of his parents in Middletown, Md.,
today. Members of his class will be his
pallbearers and a firing squad, also of his
classmates, in charge of H. D. Cassard,
will fire a volley over his grave. Bowlus
was a member of the Frederick County
Military Company of the First Regiment
and a detachment from that command
will meet the body when it arrives in
- Frederick and accompany it to Middle-
town. The body will lie in state in the
Baptist Church from 10 o'clock until 3 to-
-morrow.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.