THE Daily Short Story
A THANK OFFERING.. By Martha McCulloch-Williams.
[Copyright, 1914, by the McClure Newspaper Syucleate.!
I hope you got liss Beltennauw, no
ever else you missed," Mrs. Bagg sald ea-
zerly as Rena, her daughter, came wearily
n.
Rena nodded, saying sourly. "By the
hardest work! I rather think she sub-
seribed $5 to get rid of me. Says she
Joesn't believe in such things-gathering
up the poor children and parading them
round at a church treat. Said they earned
all they got-paid double for it in self-
respect"
"She's right!" Billy Main interrupted
emphatically. "I suspect, Indeed, she has
habit of being right."
"No doubt you think so-since she asked
you to dinner." Mrs. Bagg said softly. "I
don't blame you for going-her business
will draw you more, a whole lot more.
People are such toadies-but you can't
make 'em over. Therefore. I'm glad
Rena kept at her. Of course, her sub
scription is ridiculous for the richest wom-
an in Landly. I can explain, though, that
she's very modest and hint that she's really
doing a lot more."
"Is there no moral law against bearing
false witness for a neighbor?-is it only
against?" Bill broke in audaciously.
Mrs. Bagg scowled at him. If he had
not been her step-nephew and owner of
the finest among Landly's three motor-
cars she would have felt like ordering him
out of the house. She had given up hope
of matching him with Rena-but he liked
the girl and would, no doubt, help her
with his friends, several and sundry among
whom were as well worth catching. A far-
sighted mother, withal crafty, she brought
everything to the edge of her child's ad-
vancement-which meant. In a way, her
own.
A widow with one sole daughter might
naturally expect to live in the daughter's
home. Moreover, Rena would need her
dreadfully; she had been brought up to be
very helpless because of her beauty. The
beauty, plus a rich husband and a wan-
aging mother, would give her social leader
ship in Landly. Mrs. Bagg had yearned
for such leadership, darkly, desperately.
She had almost achieved it when her hus-
band died, leaving only the foundation of
a fortune. But, thanks to Billy's father,
She lived comfortably and Rena had been
fashionably educated. And now she was
fashionably dressed, but, notwithstanding
this, her mother had an aching sense of
all she lacked. Fate surely was partial and
cruel. Why should not Rena have the
chance of Marcia Cheltenham?
Marela had refused two millionaires, a
judge, a Senator of the United States, not
to name the undistinguished in rafts. True.
She was older-10 years older--than Rena.
But the beaux bad crowded about her ever
since she was 17. Money, of course, had
much to do with it-also travel and its
advantages. The Senator, for instance, was
a trophy of a winter in Washington. Yet
now, she who had whistled him away, was
disdainful of her own home town's char-
ities. Nobody else would dare to be so.
Mrs. Bagg, though possessed of Christian
fortitude and resignation, felt profane in
side when she led herself to think about it.
"Billy-fetch your boys in their gym
suits and let thein do stunts," Rena said.
"I've read that in Old England they always
had sports on Whitmonday"--
"They did," Interrupted Billy. "Weshall
heat them-three in the game. But not
before folks, a strictly private performance
for-just ourselves."
"In the hall? This lovely spring weather!
I call that a shame." Mrs. Bagg said.
acidly.
Billy nodded merrily. "Right. Aunt
Nott," he said: "but you see we've got the
finest sort of outdoors-the old Chelten-
ham meadows
everywhere"
-
way, way back from
"And she'll be there to see, of course.
You really are getting on." Mrs. Bagg
sneered.
Billy gave her a keen look. "She will-
not," he said. "She's going away for all
summer. Until the comes back I have the
keys to everything. My boys and all others
who will half behave will have the run of
the place. Won't they love the creek and
the swimming hole?"
"She cares nothing for girls-for wom-
en," Mrs. Bagg said telly. "At least one
must suppose so"--
"She does not care to mix them. But-
wait till you see who comes to the Or-
chards, her place back in the hills," Biliy
interrupted. "Women, old and young:
gentlewomen, decayed or simply tired;
hearty working women to whom fruit can-
ning and drying will be all a lark: other
women with patience and knowledge to
make choice preserves-as many as thes
want for themselves and some over to sell.
If I can had out two or three with a yearn-
ing for country life they can stay on and
raise things, chickens, ducks, vegetables- -
or even eggs-I suppose you can say ther
are 'raised?
"Why-why-that will cost a fortune."
Mrs. Bagg cried enviously.
Billy smiled. "It will be worth several
fortunes," he said. "Miss Cheltenham be
Heves in giving opportunity rather than
money and trents."
"Why doesn't she found a sisterhood ?
It's plain she doesn't mean to marry.
squandering her fortune on folks who
won't thank her for it." Mrs. Bagg com.
mented.
Again Billy smiled. "This must be your
day for wrong guesses, Aunt Nell." he
said. "All this is a sort of thank offering
for-great happiness, Before she goes
Miss Cheltenham will be Mrs. Temple-
she has at least persuaded him. If she will
overlook his stubborn pride of poverty, he
is bound to overlook her money."
"II-m! It seems she has made you her
confessor," Mrs. Bragg sucered.
Rilly got up, stood very straight and
answered: "No. only her man of business.
I should not be telling you all this but
for the hope of doing good by it."
"I'd like to know what. It makes me
hate her worse than ever!" Mrs. Bage
whimpered, hiding her eyes.
Billy's eyes grew dark. "I suppose you
won't take home a lesson. You have stood
for two years between your child and
happiness. You know she will never love
anyone else as she loves Tom Gray. He
has no money now, but can you measure
a man's worth in money? Let them marry.
I'll guarantee they don't starve."
"I don't understand
gan.
Mrs. Bagg be-
Billy held up a silencing hand. "Look
at Rena!" he commanded. nodding toward
a shrunken, sobbing creature in an easy
chair by the fire. "She has let you lead
her to the edge of a precipice. Do you
think if Marcin Cheltenham, with all her
advantages in the world to distract her.
couldn't get away from love-her one
love-Rena, in her narrow round, can
do it?"
"I know I can't!" Rena cried as she
darted from the room.
At the door something stayed her
Tom Gray's strong and tender arms. AN
he held her close her mother looked on.
ashen-faced, silent for a minute. Then
she bowed her face in her hands, sobbing.
"I want her to be happy--if only you'll
make her so!"
"I'll do my best." Tom said.
Rena flung up her arms. As they went
around his neck she said brokenly. "Ο
mother! 1 was-never-happy-unווז
now!"
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.