Democratic Meeting at Oakland.
Correspondence of the Baltimore sun.t
OAKLAND, MD., Sept. 13.-There was a
large and enthusiastic democratic mass-
meeting held at Offutt's hall, Oakland, 19-t
night. The large bail was literally packed
and there was quite a number of ladies in the
audience. The meating was called to order
by Chairman Brown. Congressman Stone, of
Missouri, was the first speaker and devoted
his time to a discussion of the tariff in its
various phases. He presented a great many
facts in support of tariff reform, nud argued
at length to show that a high tariff is in the
interest of monopoltes and enriches the rich
whilst it taxes everything the poor man uses
and consumes, thus making him poorer.
Сол Н. Кrd Douglas was the next speaker,
and was received with great enthusiasm. He
handled the tariff and other questions with
his usual ability and eloquence, and elicited
great applause from the larze audience pres-
ent. The meeting was kept up till nearly
midnight, and was enthusiastic throughout.
There were a large number of republicans
who had come in to hear the democratic
standard-bearer.
Howard County Court.
[Correspondence of the Baltimore Sun.!
ELLICOTT CITY, MD., Sept. 13.-In the Cir-
Court at Ellicott City today the follow-
Ing cases were dispo-ed of: state vs. Wm.
White, indicted for violating loc-1-option
1w: jury trial: verdict not guilty. State vs.
Endrow Eisenbach, charged with malicious
destruction of property: tried by jur); ver-
diet not goilty. State vs. Wm. H. Paul, car-
rying concealed weapons; tried before court;
six months in House of Correction. State vs.
Robert Osten, violating local-option law;
thirty days in jail. State vs. Frank Janeish,
violating local-option law; tried before the
court; verdict not guilty.
The Case of Charles Washington.!
[Correspondence of the Baltimore Sun.1
ELLICOTT CITY. MD., Sept. 13.-Chas. Wash-
ington, the colored boy who was acquitted
here yesterday of having killed litte Beulah
Layton, was also indicted by the recent grand
jury for assault with intent to kill Sadie, an
older sister. When the case was reached to-
day a plea of "not suilts" was confessed by
the State. As arranged yesterday, Washing-
ton will now be taken to the Reformatory at
Cheltenham. Prince George's county.
A Carpenter Accidentally Killed,
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore suo.1
FREDERICK, MD., Sept. 13.-Charles I. Du-
vall, aged about 24 years, a resient of Ur-
bana, Frederick county, and a carpenter by
trade, while at work repairing a trest) on the
Metropolitan Branch of the B. and O. Rail-
road at Boyd's Station, last night, was acci-
dentally struck by a large piece of timber
and almost instantly killed. His body was
taken to his late home for burial today.