GRAND JURY REPORTS,
Suggestions for Improvements in Laws-
High License Favored-Other Matters,
[Reported for the Baltimore Sun.I
The grand jury for the May term of the
Criminal Court at the end of their sessions,
Saturday, made the following report of their
proceedings: "During their sessions
seventy days 1,227 cases came before them,
of which 474 were presented and 753 dis-
missed; 2,746 witnesses were examined. A
number of the cases which were disposed of
were of a very unimportant character, and it
is to be regretted that there is no court
before which such cases could be taken and
finally disposed of without involving so
much loss of time both to grand juries and
courts, as well as heavy expenses to the city.
Another class of cases were those for vio-
lation of the Sunday liquor law. Of these a
large majority were dismissed for lack of
legal evidence to convict, although from the
reports of the officers on their respective
beats, the character of the saloon presented
and of the various witnesses examined, the
grand jury are satisfied that the law is
being constantly violated. Somewhat simi-
lar difficulties apply to cases involving viola-
tions of the lottery laws, and to abate these
evils some changes in the existing laws or
practices are necessary. The grand jury are
of opinion that an effective measure to at
least abate the evil of the violation of the
liquor law would be the enactment of a high
license law, with a proviso that not more
than one place for the sale of liquor should
be allowed in any one block.
"The grand jury made the customary official
visits to the various public institutions in the
city and counties, penitentiary, Bayview,
jail, Spring Grove, House of Retuge, St.
Mary's Industrial School, House of Correc-
tion, House of Reformation for Colored Boys
at Cheltenham, House of the Good Shepherd.
All of these, with the exception of one, were
found to be in a very satisfactory condition,
cleanly and well managed, as far as we could
judge. The one exception was the House of
Reformation for Colored Boys at Chelten-
ham. That institution was not in a satisfac-
tory condition, but it was explained that this
was a temporary and unusual state of things,
and that arrangements were being made to
put the institution in its usual efficient condi-
tion.
"In the jail were found a number of boys
from 13 to 17 years of age among adult pris-
oners. If it be necessary to send such youths
to jali, arrangements should be made to keep
them apart from the older prisoners, but
when practicable it would be advisable to
send them to some reformatory. In regard
to Bayview Asylum, the accommodation for
the insane inmates is undoubtedly insufi-
cient, and the grand jury are of opinion that
it would be a wise thing for the city council
to make such an appropriation as may be nec-
essary for additional accommodation, so that
the male and female patients may be kept in
separate buildings, and this unfortunate class
in our community be made more comfortable.
At Spring Grove Asylum the accommodation
is also inadequate for the large number of
patients, particularly in the kitchen and do-
Emestic portions. These were originally
erected to suffice for a household of 300
patients and attendants, whereas now the
number is about 500. The State has always
made liberal appropriations for this noble
charity, and the addition now required would
add to its efficiency and would not be
a costly improvement. The House of
Refuge has been in existence about 40
years, and has done a grand work
for the city and State in reclaiming
thousands of erring boys and making them
into good citizens. The age of the buildings
of course necessitates a considerable outlay
to keep them in good condition, but while
everytning has been done by the board of
managers as efficiently as practicable with
the means at their command, a moderate
appropriation from both city and State is
very desirable at this time.
"St. Mary's Industrial School for Boys was
found to be a beehive of industry. The boys
were found employed in the manufacture of
cigars, iron moldings, clothing and shoes.
From these a handsome annual revenue is
obtained, and the boys are being more or less
fitted to earn a living when they leave the
institution.
"The grand jury would call attention, as
previous grand juries have done, to the un-
seemly accommodations provided for the wit-
nesses attending upon the jury. It is only
needed to visit the wretched place where they
are herded together to see that it is utterly
unfitted for such a purpose. The room to
which the witnesses repair after being sworn
should not be open to the public, for it is
notorious that persons interested in the evi-
dence that may be given visit and tamper
with the witnesses, and thus defeat justice
not unfrequently." The report closes with
thanks to the court, State's attorney, clerks
and other court officials for courteous assist-
ance. Signed W. W. Spence, foreman.
The committee on the penitentiary ap-
pointed by the court reported that they
"made frequent visits to that institution, aud
were strongly impressed with the excellent
order and system prevailing therein. The
discipline is fürım but kind, the food good and
wholesome and the prisoners well clad. The
reduction of sentence offered for uniform
good behavior is one of the strongest lucen-
tives to good order, and is one of the greatest
triumphs of modern penal science. The sani-
tary regulations are of the best, and coupled
with the employment of the inmates, are
productive of their very good health, appar-
ent satisfaction and contentment, Of the 600
prisoners 361 are employed under contract,
60 detailed in performing duties pertaining to
tue institution, 12 insane, 3 sick, 17 un-
fit for any employment, 116 are unem-
ployed and 31 are females. The large
number unemployed is due to the loss
of the shoe contraor, the result of labor
agitation, and your committee would strongly
urge upon the law-makers of our State in
dealing with the question of prison labor to
consider well how important a factor occu-
pation is in maintaining the order, discipline
and health of a prison. Signed J. B. H. Jeffer-
son, Charles C. Homor, George T. Sadler,
James St. La Perry, Mayer Stein, Charles
Kettlewe
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.