Indorses The Maryland Agricultural
College Appropriatlon.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir: Apro-
pos the recent discussion-in your paper re
garding the million-dollar appropriation for
the Maryland Agricultural College, the
writer desires to add his indorsement to
the bill in question.
No investment the present Legislature
can make will yield better returns than
one fostering agriculture and horticulture.
The college, although it has suffered
much from lack of facilities, has yet to
turn out a graduate unable to successfully
pursue his life's work. The legislators
should meet the issue squarely. Do they
want an agricultural college commensurate
with the needs of the State of Maryland,
or do they want to go on record to their
constituents as neglectful of the two impot-
tant interests of agriculture and education?
JOHN P. MUDD.
Philadelphia, March 20.
Minister Pleased With The Way
The Cheltenham Howe For Col-
ored Boys Is Conducted.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir: Kind-
ly give me space to tell of my recent
visit to the Cheltenham House of Refor-
mation for Colored Bors. I was very
pleased and surprised to find such a
clean, well-kept place. There is no sign
of real imprisonment there and the en-
tire institution is not only well cared
for, but is in fine physical condition.
The energetic superintendent. John B.
Pyles, and his staff are bringing great
things to pass. The boys are well trained
and are under fine discipline.
Colored parents and guardians need
not hesitate to send there their boys,
who by force of environment cannot be
controlled at home. Nor should they be
afraid of their boys contracting any con-
tagious disease for, under the attending
physician, I am convinced that all cases
are given the best attention.
In looking over the doctor's report
to the board of managers. I note that
only three deaths have occurred in two
years. and that there has been less sick-
ness among the boys than formerly.
A. ANGOLD BROWN, B.D.
Croom, Md., March 27.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.