EVIDENCES OF PROGRESS.
THE COLORED STATE
FAIR.
MUCH TASTE AND SKILL DISPLAYED.
Excellent Specimens of Work in Agrl-
cultural, Mechanical, Artistic and
Housekeeping Departments.
[Reported for the Baltimore Sun.]
The Maryland Colored Industrial Fair, now
in progress at the Monumental Assembly
Rooms, corner of Centre and St. Paul streets,
is one of the strongest evidences of the prog-
ress that race has made since they were
emancipated, when the problem of freedom
and citizenship was solved for them by their
white brethren, but it was left to themselves
to say whether they would keep step in the
maron towards a higher civilization. Whether
they could successfully compete with the other
race in business, farming, mechanical skiller
in the finer arts of life were questions that
none could answer.
In the Monumental Hallare gathered speci-
mens of their handiwork that furnish the
most gratifying evidence of their skill and
thought. While the agricultural exhibit 18
not very large or varied, yet this is a depart-
ment of labor in which their ability cannot
be doubted. The products of the farm cou-
tributed by the boys from the House of
Reformation at Cheltenham are the clearest
proof of the colored man's ability to produce
the best crops when conditions are favorable.
These youth also display stout, serviceable
shoes, made by boys of fifteen to nineteen;
cane bottoms for chairs by boys of ten, and
caps and clothes by boys of fifteen.
Going up higher in the industrial scale the
mechanical skill is shown both in design and
execution. No elaborate machinery is ex-
hibited, but the combination tables and ora-
dies, the design for an improved shell-
thrower, the plow intended to level the earth
at the same time as it throws up the furrow,
all show an inventive talent in the race that
may some day, with better opportunities.
evolve something original and peculiar to
themselves.
In the smaller, nicer details of life one sees
work there as skillfully done as anywhere.
The cooking is so well done that a loaf of
corn bread is often mistaken for a nice cake.
The fruit canned by the Maryland cooks
makes a fine display arranged on a loug table
at one side of the room, and some of the jars
of pears are especially fine and white. One
jar in particular cannot be surpassed for
pure whiteness of the fruit. Some of the
most creditable specimens of work in this
line are those offered by the children, of ten
to fitteen, of the Melvale Industrial School.
In needlework, plain and fancy, desigo
and productions are tasteful and good. In
some of the plain sewing by children of six
or eight the stitches are small and regular.
Handsomely made dresses are shown, and
the fancy needlework in crazy quilts and
pillows, plush fire screens, and other articles
of adornment, all exhibit a taste that is culti-
vated and refined. The war work, the arti-
ficial paper flowers and the numerous fancy
articles all show something more than
mere
One piece of work
Just exhibited yesterday shows the mechani-
cal skill of the race in small things at least.
A very handy fellow, Isaac Jones, seat in a
log hain about twelve or fifteen feet in
length, composed of thirty or forty large
links, all cut from one piece of wood, with
not a break in any link. He also had two
buckets, one hung at either end of a beam,
and all from a single block of wood. Some
of the chaire, sofas and other articles of fur-
niture are neatly finished. A sulky, with
barness, is also shown, and artificial teeth in
handsome cases with glass covers.
Imitation.
But it is in the production of the higher
works of art, the bower of idealization, that
the capacity of a race 18 most severely tested.
In the fair, the exhibition of such works is
not very large, but those that are there give
the strongest grounds for hope of something
greater. The specimens are mainly limited
to the work of the pencil and brush, there
being no specimens of sculpture at all. In
the crayon portraits of prominent men, by J.
J. Dungee and M. B. Grinage, one sees good,
clear execution, with faithful copy of the orig-
inal. The likenesses of Dant. A. Payne, Isaac
Morris. Fred. Douglass and Mayor Latrobe
sre specially faithful. On either side of
Douglass's portrait hangs the work of W. D.
Henderson, one being an angry child done in
crayon, and the other a scene of the wavesand
a vessel done in water colors. They are small,
but both well done. Among the most hand-
some articles in the room are the placques,
panels and decorated china. A placque by
Emma Mitchell, another by Laura Stith, and
a panel by Mary J. Ross, and several pieces
of decorated china by L. T. Reaker are spe-
cially tasteful in design, and the execution is
also good.
The whole exhibit throughout the building
is one of the most hopeful signs of the ad-
vancement of the race.
Mr. J. H. B. Latrobe visited the fair yester-
day, and was shown through the building
anu expressed his admiration of the work.
Large numbers of persons have visited the
fair. It is to be regretted that no specimens
of the musical talent of the colored people are
offered, further than the music by the band.
In this direction more than any other they
differ from the white race, and evidence of
such difference might have been exhibited.
:
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.