THE RELIEF VALVE CASE.
DECISION BY JUDGE PHELPS.
HIS OPINION OF THE TRANSACTIONS.
Other News from the Courts Charged
With Voting Illegally at the Presi-
dential Election-A Murder Trial.
Judge Phelps filed yesterday an elaborate
opinion in the case of John E. Prunty against
Thomas C. Basshor and W. Stebbins, which
he heard in Circuit Court No. 2 some weeks
ago. The three parties to the controversy
were in partnership for the sale of the Prunty
relief valve, the suit originating in a disa-
greement as to the division of the profits.
The opinion says that "an order remanding
the cause for further testimony will be signed
on application of either side, and if no such
application is made within twenty days both
the bill and cross-bill will be dismissed, cach
side to pay their own costs."
Among other things, the opinion says:
"For more than twelve years these parties
were associated in a manufacturing enter-
prise in this city, and their multifarious and
complicated dealings extended over a large
part of the United States. During all that
time there was never a balance sheet nor a
statement. As a natural consequence for
neurly four years they have had on their
bands this costly and so far fruitless litiga-
tion. Eighteen hundred pages of testimony,
a wagon load of exhibits and a $1,750 audi-
tor's report (not objected to as excessive by
either side) compose the monument they
have raised over their own imprudence.
Among other moral lessons it well illustrates
the homely maxim of common life, 'Short
settlements make long friends. The leading
principle involved in the case is one of public
policy, and it is also one of grave moment,
infinitely transcending in its interests to
society any individual rights at stake.
"The case comes up on Mr. Prunty's exсер-
tions to an auditor's account. The account
is credited with $63,233 92 by sales of Prunty
relief valves, &c. On the debit side appears,
among other items, one of $4,704 76 for com-
missions. There is nothing whatever in the
pleadings to explain these charges. From
the exhibits and correspondence in evidence
it appears that in order to make sales of the
machines at the prices charged for them to
the municipal corporations of various States
for the use of their fire departments, the
usage of the parties, to which both the plain-
tiff and defendants were privy, was to effect
an understanding with the chief engineers of
those departments by which said officials
were to receive contingent compensation in
the event of the machine being accepted,
generally fixed at the rate of 20 per cent, on
the price of each machine sold through their
influence. There are exceptional cases in
which the sales appear to havebeen legitimate.
The dealings with the city of Baltimore on ac-
count of its fire department, so far as the
evidence goes, were, with one disputed ex-
ception, of this character. Prunty had been
an employe in the Baltimore fire department.
He and his invention were well known to its
officials. He himself naively testifies that
there was 'no occasion' for commissions here.
"There was one transaction of $100 with
Spillman in the early part of 1876 about
which the testimony is conflicting. Spill-
man was chieť ef engineer of the Baltimore
city fire department until the close of that
year. He swears positively that the $100 was
a 'personal loan' from his friend Basshor. It
never happened to be repaid by Spillman. It
never happened to be deinanded by Basshor.
It appears as one of the charges against
Prunty as a payment made on account of the
concern. That is the view of it to which
both defendants stand committed as a busi-
ness operation. Basshor, who paid the
money, is more explicit. He swears that the
$100 was paid 'as commissions for the sale of
valves made to the Baltimore fire depart-
ment. These are his exact words as taken
down by the auditor. He further says that
another $50 had been previously paid Spill-
man on Prunty's order. Prunty admits the
payment of the $50, but swears it was for
Spillman's 'services in New York,' and not as
commissions on any machines sold in Balti-
more. He positively denies any knowledge
whatever of the $100 payment, and it is in
this connection that he observes there was
'no occasion' for commissions here. He says
the $50 charge is correct, but objects to pay
his half of the $100.
"It is not the least of the evils incident to
crooked transactions that they impair the
credibility of all parties concerned in them.
There is nothing for the court to do here but
to believe the two witnesses, who swear to
the innocence of all three, or else the one
who swears to his own guilt and the guilt of
the other two. The solution of this problem
may be reserved until it is settled whether
this and other issues are not merged in a
greater question behind them."
The court says that the first question to be
considered is whether Prunty can enforce
payment of salary for sales made by the
inethod indicated, and answers it thus: "Ser-
vices, a material part whereof consists in the
corrupt solicitation o of public officials, cannot
be recognized by any court as a lawful sub-
ject for compensation."
A large number of authorities are cited.
"Take the traditional case," say's the Judge,
"of the highwaymen reported in 2, Pothin on
Oblig. (Evans) 3, under the name of Everet
vs. Williams, one of whom filed a bill on the
equity side of the Court of Exchequer against
his 'pal' for an account of the proceeds of
sundry watches, purses, horses, saddles,
bridles, rings, swords, canes and other com-
modities acquired by their joint 'dealings'
with divers parties on Hounslow Heath, Bag-
shot and elsewhere. The bill was dismissed
for impertinence, the solicitor fined for con-
tempt, all traces of the proceedings were
expunged from the records of the court, and
both parties were afterward executed."
Judge Phelps concludes by declaring that
the legitimate and illegitimate sales are so
involved that no apportionment is practi-
cable until the accounts are sifted and win-
nowed, when an entirely new aspect will be
placed on the controversy.
CHARGED WITH VOTING ILLEGALLY.
Charles Getzendanner was placed on trial
before a jury'in the United States District
Court on the charge of voting illegally at the
presidential election last November. The
evidence showed that the accused was regis-
tered in the first precinct of the fifteenth
ward, his residence being given as 523 Han-
over street, and his age 34 years. In the
ninth precinct of the same ward the father of
the accused, also named Charles Getzen-
danner, was registered. The father's resi-
dence was given at 105 Montgomery street.
and his age 53 years. After voting in
the first precinct the son went to
the ninth precinct and voted on the
name of his father. His vote was at first re-
fused because he gave a wrong number and
because the judges did not believe he was 53
years old, as he claimed. Afterward, how-
ever, when he returned with the right num-
ber his vote was received. The evidence for
the defense was that the accused had been
drinking heavily for some weeks before elec-
tion and was intoxicated on election day.
The accused testified that he was at the large
fire on Sharp street Sunday, the 2d of Sep-
tember, and got wet. This caused him to
commence drinking, and he remembered
nothing more until the 16th of December.
The case will probably be concluded today.
SUITS FOR DAMAGES.
In the Court of Common Pleas Peter Mc-
a suit against Joseph Klein and one against
the Herald Publishing Company of Balti-
Laughlin, by W. H. Cowan, attorney, entered
more, claiming $10,000 damages in each case.
Both suits were by titling, but it is under-
stood that the suit against Klein is for
alleged malicious prosecution, and the one
against the Herald for alleged slander in
connection with a statement in reference
thereto.
THE COAL-OIL LAMP MURDER.
who is charged with causing the
The trial of James Duffy, aged 31 years.
the death of
Mrs. Jane Harris, aged 66 years, is assigned
for today in the Criminal Court. The two
lived together at No. 120 North Chesnut
street, and on the evening of the 22d of last
February Mrs. Harris was burned to death.
The coroner's jury found that her death was
caused by a lighted coal-oil lamp thrown at
her by James Duffy.
MISCELLANEOUS COURT NEWS.
Judge Dennis signed a decree absolutely
divorcing Mary M. Kaufman from John C.
Kaufman. They were married in Baltimore
October 23, 1881, and lived together unfil
August 12, 1885, when, as the evidenceshows,
the husband abandoned his wife. There are
two children, aged six and four years respect-
ively, who are given to the custody of their
mother.
Robert B. Lilly, by Wm. S. Bryan, attor-
ney, entered suit in the City Court against
Brewington, Bainbridge & Co. for $6,000
damages. The claim is for the loss of four
fingers by Lilly while working the drop-
hainmer in the tinware factory of the firm.
Surah E. Adams, by Emil Budnitz, attor-
ney, filed an application in Circuit Court No.
2 for an absolute divorce from Wm. H.
Adams, on the ground of abandonment.
They were married on the 12th of January,
1876, and lived together until the 26th of
March, 1886. They have no children.
About $20,000 was received in payment for
May licenses yesterday. Mr. John T. Gray,
clerk of the Court of Common Plens, says
that all persons required to have licenses,
and who have not yet obtained them, are
liable to indictment and fine.
In the United States District Court, District
Attorney Hayes filed a libel to condemn and
sell two packages of dress goods and laces
smuggled into this port last August and
seized by the collector.
The grand jury visited the Fiouse of Refor-
mation for Colored Boys at Cheltenham.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.