REFORM SCHOOL INSPECTED
Young Negro Inmates Play Games
For Visitors' Amusement.
Upper Marlboro, Md.. May 30.----The an-
Dual inspection of the House of Reforma-
tion, located at Cheltenham, Prince George's
county, took place today and was attended
by about 50 Baltimoreans, who came down
on a special train early this morning, and
an equal number from the county. Warden
Lee. of the Baltimore City Jall, was among
the visitors from' Baltimore.
The inspection was made by a commit-
tee of the board of managers. The com-
petitive drill between the various compa-
nies of the school was won by Company 1,
Capt. E. A. Loveless. Baseball and other
games were played by the boys. A tug of
war between the teams selected from the
visitors was won by the team managed hy
Mr. Frank Boltou, of Baltimore.
Luncheon was served on the campus and
brief addresses were made by N. C. Grasty,
secretary. Baltimore City Charities, and
Rev. George M. Bragg, of Baltimore.
AGED VETERAN SHOOTS SELF
J. A. McClary Commits Suicide At
Tolchester Beach.
Chestertown. Md.. May 30. Joshua A
McClary shot and killed himself last night
at his home. near Toicbester. He was
the proprietor of the riding track there.
He took his double-barrel gun, went into
his yard and fired two shots. One shot
took effect Just below his chin in his
breast. He was a Union veteran, 72 years
Told. He leaves a widow. one daughter and
two sons.
SAYS HE IS HYPNOTIZED
Samuel Butts Wants Man Arrested
For Working A Spell.
Hagerstown. Md.. May 30.--Samuel
Butts, of this city, formerly of West Vir-
ginia, employed in Angle's quarries, called
today with his wife and three children at
the police station and asked Justice Doun
for a warrant for Harry Gaze, who he
claimed hypnotized him. The warrant was
refused.
Butts said that on March 31, while em-
ployed in the Western Maryland Railway
yards here, Gaze hypnotized him. He said
a spell was put upon him. Since then,
Butts declared, he had been unable to
sleep and can scarcely work. He says he
is constantly chased by gruesome figures.
from which he is unable to escape. He
said he asked Gaze to revoke the spell,
but Gaze refused. Gaze has mitigated his
torture. Butts said, by singing the incanta-
tion backward.
JOCKEY SERIOUSLY HURT
York Falls From Horse While Ex-
ercising It At Belmont Park.
Belmont Park, L. I., May 30.-Rothwell
York, a jockey, was seriously injured
while exercising a horse on the track here
today.
Falling from the saddle, his feet caught
in the stirrup and he was dragged 40
yards before the horse was caught.
His chest was crushed and he was other-
wise seriously hurt.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.