WHAT HE THINKS OF US.
MUTILATED BY MARYLANDERS.
APPLETON'S LETTER TO GEN.MACFEELY
Another Original Flag-The Strange
Story Told by Widow McPherson-
Miscellaneous News of the Exposition.
Acting Secretary of War, General Mac-
fecly, yesterday received from Mr. Eben Ap-
pleton, of New York, the following letter: "I
am in receipt of your valued favor of the
20th inst. urging me on behalf of a commit-
tee of gentlemen from Baltimore to lend
the star-spangled banner to that city next
month. It is needless for me to say how gladly
I would comply with your request could 1
do so consistently with my duty toward the
preservation of that flag, and in order to ac-
quaint you with the state of the flag at pres-
est permit me to say that some years
since the late Rear-Admiral Preble, U. S. Ν.,
who was deeply interested in the relic, had it
taken to the navy-yard he then commanded,
and in order to keep the banner from falling
to picces had it heavily ba backed with canvas.
In its present state it weighs probably 50
pounds. It is very unwieldy and about 30
fect square. It was badly torn by shot and
shell during the bombardment of Fort Mc-
Henry, and if it were flung to the breeze
would be rendered absolutely valueless in a
very short time. There is another danger to
which this flag has been exposed and from
which it has suffered greatly, namely,
relic hunters. Incredible as it may
seem it has been badly mutilated by
these marauders. Add to all this the
danger from transportation and that arising
from fire and it seems to ine that I should bo
greatly to blame were I to allow this precious
relic to pass out of my hands. The people
who have called on me at the request of the
exposition committee to urge the claims of
the committee to to the flag on this occasion
have gone away assuring me that the stand
I have taken was a pertectly proper one."
Secretary of War Proctor, who was in
Washington, said to a representative of
THE SUN that he did not know whether
the department would take any further ac-
tion in the matter or not. The The closing sen-
tence of Mr. Appleton's letter seemed to indi-
cate to him that the Baltimore committeo
was satistied with the stand Mr. Appleton
had taken.
Mr. Fraucis P. Stevens and Mr. Andrew D.
Greentree, special agent in charge of the
relies at Pimlico of the historical committee, con
returned last night from New York, where
they held several interviews with Mr. Apple-
ton. They met Mr. Appleton at his resi-
dence Thursday night and at the Astor
House yesterday moring. In the course of
the latter imterview Mr. Appleton became
angry, Mr. Stevens says, and declare with
forcible gesticulation, "I'll be d if you
get that flag." Mr. Stevens will go to Wash-
ington today to report the result of the inter-
views and to request secretary Proctor to act
in the matter.
Mr. Appleton's flag was last seen in Balti-
more on Wednesday, October 13, 1880, during.
the sesqui-centennial, when it was carried
by Mr. Wm. W. Carter, in an open barouche,
and was immediately in the rear of the Old
Defenders, who were able to participate in
the parade. The Old Defenders who were in
advance of the flag on that occasion were
John J. Daneker, Nathaniel Watts, Wm.
Batchelor, Samuel Jenings, Elijah Stans-
bury, Asbury Jarrett, Wm. Stites, George
Boss and Henry Lightner. All are dead
now. ANOTHER "ORIGINAL" FLAG.
Mrs. McPherson, living at 1630 East Fayette
street, widow of Captain William McPher-
son, one of the Old Detenders of Baltimore,
claims that the flag which floated over Fort
McHenry during its bombardment' by the
British fleet is not in the possession of Mr,
Eben Appleton, of New York, but is wrapped
around the body of her husband and buried
with him in Greenmount Cemetery. Sne
Bays her husband cominanded a company
which was stationed at the fort during the
war, and at its close the star-spangled banner
which inspired Francis Scott Key was given
to him. It was originally sixty feet long, and
during Captain McPherson's life was brought
out and festooned about the front of his house
on every national holiday. He died June 25,
1878, and shortly before his death asked as his
dying request that the flag be buried with
him, and Mrs. McPherson obeyed.
WILL RECALL WAR SCENES.
There is not an idle moment for any of the
committees or clerks engaged in preparing
for the exposition. As the date of the big
event is approached the work increases, and
thousands of details will be arranged be-
tween now and September 9.
General Clinton P. Paine, chairman of
the military committee, and General Rob-
ert Ober, chairman of the transpor-
tation committee, have returned from
Philadelphia after completing arrangements
for the transportation of Pennsylvania
troops to Baltimore over the Philadelphia
and Reading and the Pennsylvania Rail-
roads. All troops will arrive in Baltimore in
time to reach Pimlico by 11 o'clock on the
morning of the sham battle. The route for
the parade of troops on September 13 will be
determined upon next week.
Col. L. L. Livingston promised some days
ago to "make night hideous" by the dis-
charge of big guns from Fort McHenry on
September 14, and the warships will swell
the noise to a wonderful volume. While
these iron guns are thundering forth Mr.
William Bona will add to the confusion by
the explosion of 300 paper shells, some of
them 36 inches in circumference, which will
be tossed high into the air from mortars
made for for the occasion. The smoke from the
guns will at the same time be pierced by
trashes of light from 3,000 rockets, none of
them weighing less than a pound. One hun-
dred rockets will be tired simultaneously
from the ramparts and from seven floats Mr.
Bond will have anchored in the river. Mr.
Bond was authorized to take part in the
battle at North Point, and will set off there
100 reporting shells.
Copls. M. F. Jamar and E. H. Wardwell are
working out all the details of the fight at
Pinglico, and these, when completed, will be
furnished the cominander of each battalion.
Every movement of each command will be
mapped out and given the proper officer.
Gen. H. G. Gibson has been furnished the
plans for the American army. Col. C. D.
Gaither will in general outline follow the
approach of the British army, under Col.
Brooke, toward the American troops. Gen.
Paine has issued the following order: "Mem-
bers of the staff and aids of the provisional
American army will notify Col. Jamar,
inspector-general, of their acceptance of the
position tendered. On this notice of accept-
ance they will receive their commissions and
be assigned to duty."
MISCELLANEOUS NOTES.
Among other notable exhibits at Pimlico
will be those of the colored citizens of the
State. They will occupy three sections. The
first will be a display of the State institu-
tions, the Cheltenham House of Reforma-
tion for Colored Boys, the House of Refor-
mation for Colored Girls at Melvale, the Insti-
tution for Colored Blind and Deaf Mutes of
Maryland and the Orphanage of the Oblate
Sisters of Providence. The second will con-
tain specimens of drawing, painting and
other art work. The third will be devoted to
an individual exhibit of various goods. Isaac
Myers is chairman of the department of col-
ored exhibits, and the committee consists of
J. L. H. Smith, Joseph Warren, N. C. н.
Groome, and and Malachi Gibson, secretary:
Owing to lack of room, many exhibits from
Southern States were refused.
The railway lines of Virginia, North Cаго-
points in those States half-rate tickets will
lina and Tennessee announce that from all
be sold to the exposition from September to
9.
From points
Juclusive, and good until September 21.
and other extreme southern States the rate
is two cents per mile or four cents for the
round trip. The committee, R. W. Cator,
Lloyd L. Jackson and Jno. R. Bland, are
working to have these rates reduced.
Mr. Charles H. Latrobe, engineer of the
parks, has been directed by the Mayor to use
the park rollers and watering-carts on the
centre.g
avenue, from North
street to Cathedral, every morning from 6 to
12 o'clock until the 12th of September, in
order to get the avenue in first-class condi-
tion.
The main exposition building at Pimlico
will be ready for the reception of exhibits
Monday. Col. J. Thomas Scharf, who has
full charge of the exposition buildings, will
be on the grounds each day to assist exhib-
itors in the placing and arranging of their
exhibits.
Few marshals are more more occupied with the
arrangements for the civic and trades dis-
play than Major J. G. Pangborn. For the
past month he has devoted his entire timo to
the labor, and his whole office force has been
employed in exposition work. The New York
Life Insurance Compary has permitted him
to make this use of his time and efforts, and it
displays much interest in the progress of
of his
preparations.
When the annex and the grand stand build-
ings are ready it will be announced through
the press, which will be about the middle of
next week. Exhibitors are expected to get
their stands, railings, etc., in position at
once so as to have everything in readiness for
exhibition by Saturday, September 7. All
decorations and signs must be submitted to
Col. Scharf before being put into position.
Five pupils will be selected from the
eighth grade in each of the male grammar
and English-German schools to participate in
the parade on September 9. They will wear
dark clothes, and will met at the City College
Tuesday next at two o'clock for organization
into companies.
The Veteran Corps of the Fifth Regiment
has chartered the steamer Wenonah, of the
Weems Line, for the bombardment of Fort
McHenry. The capacity of the boat is 1,000,
but only 300 tickets will be issued to the
corps and its friends, thus insuring comfort
and safety. A good concert will be furnished
during the evening by a fine band.
The potters employed by Brown, McNulty
& Co., President street, are preparing for the
exposition and expect to place 175 uniformed
men and a drum corps in the parade. They
will also constru construct a large float exhibiting
their wa wares for the occasion. Frederick
Smith will be marshal. John Murphy, George
Lefevre and others have charge of the ar-
rangements.
Race trials of speed are to be expected at
Pimlico. Budd Doble, who drives Johnson,
the famous pacer, has wagered a box of
Henry Clay cigars with Col. Hough that the
horse will pace a mile in 2.06. if horse and
track are "just right." Turf journals all
over the country are referring to the Pimlico
meeting in complimentary terms, and believe
the race races will be the most notable of their
class ever held. held in the South.
Mrs. Justina Price, 69 Madison avenue
extended, the surviving daughter of Captain
Julius Willard, one of Baltimore's Old De-
fenders, has her father's commissions as lieu-
tenant and captain and the roster of his com-
pany, with its constitution and by-laws. She
also has his old red silk silk sash, worn by him at
the dam
the battle of North Point.
Jr., conducted a joint
rehearsal he exposition chorus at the
Calumet Club last night. The attendance of
singers was very large, and satisfactory
progress was made. The chorus will, with-
out doubt, prove a feature of the week's
entertainments that will be highly appreci-
ated.
Mr. John L. Barrett, 223 South Eden street,
has an interesting volume on the geneal-
ogies of some of the old families of Concord,
Mass., considerable space being given to the
Barrett family, showing its members to have
been soldiers, statesmen, lawyers, physicians
and preachers for generations back.
Mr. Robert Crain has has been requested by
Dr. J. H. Scarff to deliver the address to the
knights at the Pimlico tournament, Tuesday
evening, September 10, and has signified his
acceptance.
A sword found on the battle field of North
Point by Dr. J. H. Martin, September 14,
1814, has been presented to the historical
committee by Mr. H. T. Martin.:
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.