The House Of Reformation For Col-
ored Boys.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir: I
visited the other day the House of Refor-
mation for Colored Boys at Cheltenham,
Prince George's county. The institution
is situated near Croom, some 10 miles be-
low Upper Marlboro and by rail 47 miles
from Baltimore. I was impressed with
the schools and its methods. The boys seem
to be happy, well treated and well fed.
The teachers told me that punishment is
seldom required, but the discipline seems
to be excellent. The boys are taught les-
sons in school, how to take care of them
selves. how to keep clean and how to work.
The school education does not go higher
than arithmetic. The work in which they
are employed is farm work, broom-making
and the manufacture of all the clothing
and shoes used in the institution. The
boys also do the housework, cleaning and
scrubbing, cooking, washing and ironing.
They produce the greater part of the food
used and have fine gardens. The boys thus
trained are in great demand by farmers
throughout the State. I was struck with
the perfect cleanliness of the whole place.
There is nothing to offend either sight or
smell.
The buildings are fine, a central admin-
istration building and six cottages, all of
brick. They are arranged in a beautiful
campus, shaded by fine trees and orna-
mented with flowers. There are the usual
farm buildings, all in perfect order. On
the farm there is a station of the United
States Government for scientific observa-
tion.
The water supply is pure and abundant,
providing the buildings and bathhouses.
The water is pumped from a covered reser-
voir which collects from a number of near-
by springs.
The farm contains 1,250 acres and is
three miles long, 500 acres being in good
timber. The original tract of some 750
acres was given by the late Enoch Pratt
and an adjacent farm of 500 acres was
purchased. The Institution is governed by
a board, of which Gen. Thomas J. Shry-
ock is president. He and one other rep-
resent Baltimore city on the board, ap-
pointed by the Mayor, and one manager
is appointed by the Governor. Mr. Joseph
J. Janney, of Baltimore, Is the secretary
and active representative of the executive
committee. He goes to the place constantly
to inspect it. Mr. John B. Pyles is the su-
perintendent, and he has an efficient corps
of officers. There are at this time 335
boys in the school, and it is full.
۱۳.
Baltimore, May 17.