POE HIS IDEAL AMONG
POETS AND WRITERS
Mr. O. C. Painter A Worshiper At The Shrine Of
Baltimore's Misunderstood Genius-
Works For Recognition.
OUT of the twight of semi-onscurity in with the Frisoners Ald Association, and
which his modesty has wrapped him since that time I have been trying all I
for long years steps with courage, albeit could to help this institution. Five years
with some reluctance, Orrin Chalfant ago Rev. Dr. Edward L. Hubbard, pastor
Painter, philanthropist. poet and Quaker of the Eutaw Street Methodist Episcopal
Gentleman.
Church, and I started the Ilubbard-Painter
It is true that Baltimore has heard be- Lodge on l'aca street. We offered this as a
fore of Mr. Painter. It was he who haven of refuge for the unfortunate. I
urged the breaking of the high wall that think while it lasted this home did good
surrounds the little burying ground of old work, but unfortunately it cost about
Westminster I'resbyterian Church, on West twice as much to run it as we could get in
Fayette street, and who paid for the fran return, so tinaily we had to give it up.
gate through which the publle now may Yes, it was a pretty expensive experiment.
glimpse at the grave of Edgar Allan Poe. It cost me about $16,000,
He Who Adorns Poe's Grave.
"After that, as another personal venture,
I opened a place on North street, near
It is he who slips into the churchyard, Saratoga, where we got logs from the for-
now and then he has been there within est to be split into kindling wood and
the week and places a garland of fresh sold. The idea was to employ nobody ex-
cut flowers on the grave of the strange cept men who had been just released from
genius, when the world is rushing by, for prison. But somehow this did not prove
getful.
a success. We had to have a horse and
wagon, a driver and a watchman, and there
was the rent to pay. Well, we had to give
it up after I had sunk $4,000 in it."
But this is recreation for Mr. Painter:
his work is to save men and women, boys
and girls, who have reached the dregs of
life, who have been punished by society, He went back to the beginning of things
imprisoned and cast aside as worthless, and told how he had watched the develop
For the sake of these he consents to talk ment of the society, of his own work as
about himself, even braving the danger of treasurer, how the quarters had been
becoming a Prominent Baltimorean.
changed and enlarged and how the asso-
institution it is now.
Appeals In Verse.
A glance at the forty-fourth annual re-ciation became finally the really Important
port of the Prisoners Ald Association of
Maryland, the last one published, reveals
the fact that Mr. Painter is treasurer of
the organization. Of course, it does not
mention the circumstance that for the last
12 years Mr. Painter has been the bone and
sinews, financially, of the association. But
It gives a clue to this fact.
And He Gave All The Rest
The other day he opened this little
pamphlet and pointed with pride to its
tables, showing how many prisoners in
the last fiscal year had been alded through
the agency of the association and set upon
the path to better things. Quite by chance
he turned to a list of contributors--there
were more than 1.000 names, and each con-
tributor had given an average of some SS
There was one exception. Mr. Painter
gave $2.376.58.
"But then, you must remember, I am
the treasurer of the Prisoners Aid," he
said, just as though that cleared up the
whole mystery. He actually blushed.
"Then you are in the habit of putting
your hand into your own pocket and of
furnishing whatever amount is needed to
complete the yearly expense fund?"
Makes Up Deficiency.
He admitted it. After all, It saves the
embarrassment of having to beg others
for the money, and Mr. Painter has the
soul of a poet. The few friends who know
call it an imposition, for he has been pay-
Ing a large part of the expenses of the
Prisoners' Aid Assocition for years: some
times he gives more than was the amount
of his last donation.
Mr. Painter really makes sincere efforts
to collect money for the association. He
sends out beautiful little postcards, writes
pamphlets and does his best in every way.
Of course, it is perfectly natural that he
should write attractive appeals to be print-
ed on the cards.
course
This is a sample-verse, of
priated under a landscape that suggests
New England or Canada:
In Northern lands, 'amid spruce and tir,
Our feet in summer may have strayed
By rocky shores, where breezes stir.
But now we're back to the Prisoners' Md.
Work must ever follow play,
And many hands can make it light;
To help us, you will tind, will pay.
So send us what you think is right.
On the back of this particular card are
printed sayings by Washington Irving,
Seneca, Henry Drummond, Epictetus, A. B.
Hegeman and William Morris. All counsel
generosity and aid to the distressed and
afflicted.
"And do you write much poetry, Mr.
Painter?"
Verse As Recreation.
"I write verse as a form of recreation,"
he said simply. "Some of it has been pub
lished, but I have never sold any. Some.
how I cannot bear the thought of selling
poetry for money. It is placing a financial
value on the best that is within one. Now
Wherefore, the next Legislature will be
asked to appropriate a substantial annual take Ella Wheeler Wilcox, for instance.
fund for the maintenance of the associa- Since she has begun to write for news-
tion, aud there will be hundreds who with papers I think she has weakened remarka-
be glad to come forward and declare that bly in her verse writing. She has been too
the organization is one of the best of the prolific a producer.
State's Institutions.
To Church Too Much!
Recited "Raven" In Poe's Room.
"On the other hand, take Edgar Allan
"You see, I have made this my life Poe. There was a man whose poetry could
work," resumed Mr. Painter. "I have seen be put into a single volume. But what
the Prisoners' Ald grow year after year, American poet is more highly esteemed!
I have seen men come from prison to the Oh, yes, Poe is one of my hobbies, I know.
shelter of our home on St. Paul street and One time I went down to the University
find a haven that has put new courage into of Virginia and locked myself in Poe's
them. I have helped to find them employ- old room, No. 18, West Range. There was
ment and to start them on the road to a fairly good crayon or print of l'oe above
respectibility. And well, it is a kind the mantel, and to show how I felt what
of religion with me. I am not much of a should I do but recite "The Raven' to the
churchman. Sometimes I think people go
to church too much and do too little to
help others."
"Don't you think it might help the as
sociation if the public were allowed to
know of your connection with it, how
you began, etc., and a little more about
you personally?"
Looked Like David Warfield.
portrait.
"Then"-he smiled whimsically-"I lay
down upon the floor. It is a way I have
to gain inspiration. Different people have
different ways of seeking and finding in-
spiration. I like to get down and roll it
out. My friends say I am eccentric. Prob.
ably I am." And lie laughed with the aban-
don and enjoyment of a boy.
"Have you tried any literary style other
than verse?"
Once A Publicist.
"I wrote a history of the Painter family
Mr. Painter considered this, and for a
time gazed thoughtfully out of the window.
He looked just like David Warfield. He
is a man of medium height and size, with
brown hair that is touched with copper, once, tracing its branches back for 200
and is fine and silken. IIis eyes are blue. years. Then for some time I was in charge
They are fine eyes to look upon, but for of the advertising of the Crown Cork and
years they have been of waning use to Seal Company. That is a kind of litera
ture."
the owner, and now, despite the skill of the
best medical specialists, Mr. Painter is
hardly able to read.
"All right. WWhere shall I begin?"
He smiled engagingly and squared him as a means of getting from place to place
self for a "regular" interview.
"You are a native of Baltimore?"
"What are your other recreations?"
"Walking. I am not an athlete or sports-
man, and I don't like automobiles except
quickly. Oh, yes, I play the guitar. I
took lessons on this instrument, and play
some of my own compositions. I have
quite a fine collection of guitars."
Has Voices Of Dead Friends.
Born While Visiting.
"Well, as a matter of fact, I was born
in Pennsylvania, when my mother was on
a visit to her people there. But my father, Incidentally, it transpired that another
of course, was a native of this State. Most hobby of Mr. Painter's is the collection of
people think that William l'ainter, my phonograph records that have been "talked
father, never invented anything but these on" by his friends. He declared that he
patent crimped metal stoppers for bottles. had thus bottled up the voices of some well-
He was, however, the inventor of I should known Baltimoreans who have been dead
say at least a hundred patented mechanical for a good many years.
articles.
Now Mr. Painter, it can be guessed,
"I am 40 years old. Nearly all of my while realizing that it is nothing more
education I received in the Baltimore pub- than right that the Prisoners' Aid Associa-
He schools and the City College. Then I tion should be supported by the State, is
went to a private school. I studied me- possessed of too much temperament to
chantes, and am thoroughly acquainted tackle the job of convincing the Legisla.
with workshops. In fact, I quite pride ture of this. So, while he will continue to
myself upon my knowledge in this line. I ask in verse for assistance, and failing in
was able to help my father in perfecting this, to give his own means, as in the past,
some of his inventions, and I even invented he is depending upon his very good friends
something myself. No, I will not say and supporters to help in establishing the
what it is.
Inherits Philanthropy.
"Business? No, I am not engaged in of the whole expense, Mr. Fainter would
business except in the business of doing probably not be much the saver, for it is a
what I can to help those who are at the good guess that philanthropy would still
very bottom. I come by this work quite take annually a large slice of his income
naturally, I suppose. My grandfather, and most of his time and energy. Philan-
Dr. Edward Painter, an elder in the So thropy is a family trait, and habits such
ciety of Friends, was a philanthropist, aas his are not easily shaken.
real philanthropist. Well, I inherited the
trait to some extent, possibly."
"Married, are you?"
Mr. Painter looked really shocked; then
be smiled.
An "Old Bachelor."
"No," he said, "I am an old bachelor.
I help to take care of other folks' babies.
You see there is the Nursery and Child's
Hospital, at Franklin and Schroeder
streets, in which I am inuch Interested.
"But do you want to know how I hap-
pened to get into the Prisoners Ald Asso-
clation? Well, it all came about through
its founder, Goldsborough S. Griffith, who
died several years ago. For years I had
been seeing his picture in the newspapers
as the philanthropist who was doing so
much to lighten the burdens of the poor
and the moral invalids released from pris-
association as a permanent State institu-
tion.
But even if Maryland were to take care
ons. I made up my mind that if I wanted
to get into work of this kind he was the
man of all men to consult.
"He advised me to aid the Industrial
Home for Colored Girls at Melvale, Md..
and gave me the greatest amount of advice
about the treatment of the moral-delin-
quent classes. Ife was one of the few real
criminologists I have ever known. Charles
D. Reid is another. He is the executive
secretary of the I'risoners' Ald Associa-
tlon, you know. I was a member of the
directorate of the hoine for colored girls
for nine years and then went on the board
of the House of Reformation for Colored
Boys at Cheltenham.
"Twelve years ago I became connected
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.