Suit for Three-Quarters of a Million,
NEW YORK, Nov. 13.-John_H. Smalt, as
assignee of a claim held by N. Corwith & Co.,
lead dealers in this city and Chicago, has
brought suit in the Supreme Court against
Gurden Corwith, a metal broker and member
of the Metal Exchange, to recover $750,009
damages. Corwith for several years bas been
the broker in this city for N. Corwith & Co.
for the purchase and sale of metals. Assuch
he has taken charge of metals purchased
or sold for them. It is charged that
be has fraudulently misapplied assets and
property of Corwith & Co., made false state-
ments as to his dealings, and collected and
received large sums of money for which he
refused to render accounts. Since January,
1887, he received more than 400 carloads of
lead belonging to Corwith & Co., it is alleged,
of the value of at least $500,000. wních he has
not accounted for. In addition to this, plaint-
iff alleges the broker bas embezzled the pro-
ceeds of this, and has never accounted for it
or for other moneys amounting to $750 000.
Corwith was arrested upon an order granted
by Judge Cullen,and required to give bati.
The Situation Hopeful in Florida.
JACKSONVILLE, FLA., Nov. 13. -The board
of health today reports seven new cases of
yellow fever, only one white. There were
two deaths-H. Edmondson, a colored boy.
and A. Veneraze, an Italian, at St Luke's
Hospital Total cases to date, 4,518; total
deaths, 390. The situation is regarded as
very hopeful by leading physicians here.
The weather is mild and showery.
The steamer of the Clyde Line from New
York due at Mayport today has a full pas-
senger hat and many returning Jacksonville
refugees. There is a rumor that these will
attempt to come up to the city. Every pre-
caution bas been taken to exclude thom.
MONTGOMERY, ALA.. Nov. 13.- Montgomery
has raised her quarantine against both Deca-
tur and Jacksonville, and passengers and bag-
yage can now come in.
How the B. and O. Will Get to New York,
PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 13.-The Baltimore
and Uno Raitoad has prepared a new scheme
for getting through to New York. A charter
was granted today by the State department
at Harrisburs to the Schuyıkıll Junction
Railroad Company of Philadelphia, with a
capital of $1,000,000.
The route as laid down in the application
for the charter is from Thirteenth street to
Second street and Cheltenham avenue, the
county line. The distance is seven and a-hair
miles. Another company will probably be
organized in Montgomery county to extend
the Inne from Second street and Cheltenham
avenue to the North Pennsylvania Railroad,
only a short distance further on, thus form-
ing a direct connection with the Reading's
New York line.
Suicide of Thomas L. Botts.
NEW YORK, Nov. 13.-Thomas L. Botts, an
insurance broker, aged 35 years, shot himself
through the head at the Hotel Royal today
and died within an hour. Disappointment
over the election and financial losses caused
by it led him to drinking. He was at busi-
ness yesterday, and on leaving said he would
be at his office at 10 o'clock today. He
registered at the hotel after midnight. A
chambermaid found him with a bullet-wound
in his temple.
Botts was a member of the famous Botts
family of Virginia. He was popular among
insuranco brokers, and was captain of their
Cleveland and Thurman Club. He had been
a member of the Seventh Regiment and was
a resident of Harlem..