TELEGRAPHIC SUMMARY, ETC.
The United States weather bureau forecast
for Baltimore, Washington and vicinity tor
today is for fair weather.
Madame Patti has a sore throat and will be
unable to sing at Cheltenham, Eng., where
she was billed to appear The Duke of Nas
sau has taken the pain us rezent of the
grand duchy of Luxemburg Fearing nihal-
ist plots, the police precautions at all the
Kussian imperial palaces have been in-
creased During a debate on the foreign esti-
mates of France in the Chamber ot Deputies
of that country a member advocated an alli-
ance with Russia The French minister of
foreign affairs stated to the Chamber of
Deputies of his country that the army of
France was being placed in a position in
which it would be ready for every emer-
gency Mr. Gladstone claims that it would
have cost the British Government £200,000,000
to purchase forfeited heenses from publi-
cans Lord Ripon is ill The Emperor ot
Austria and several Austman archdukes
greeted the Czarewitch on his arrival in
Vienna bomb was exploded in frout ot
the monument crected in Trieste to com
memorate the five hundredth anniversary of
the union of Trieste to Austria, but no dam-
age was done The fear of famine in the
West of Ireland has been acknowledged us
the officials of the British treasury depart-
ment, who bave ordered a number of new
railways to be built at once in the
impoverished districts for the purpose
of giving the peasants work Lambert,
the Canadian pugilist, and O'Neill, the
Lancashire man, who were arrested at
Liverpool just before they wore to take
part in a prize fight at the Lyceum, מו
that city, were arraigned before a magistrate
and bound over to keep the peace.
Stevenson Areker, the ex-treasurer of
Maryland, who is now serving a term in the
penitentiary, bas recovered is health
Mayor Davidson is im favor of placing the
public squares under the direction of the
park board, with honorary commissioners
to oversee the condition of the squares The
new steamship Howard Cassard was success-
fully Inunched President Gilman, of Jolins
Hopkins University, Major Thomas W. Hall
and Mr. Arthur George Brown were elected
trustees of Peabody Institute The booths at
the Musouse fair have nearly all been re-
moved The Guild of the Iron Cross held its
semi-annual festival at St. Androw's Prot-
estaat Episcopal Church=Mr. Richard G.
Moulton, of Cambridge, England, delivered
bis second lecture on "The Story of Faust" at
the Peabody William E Healy will have a
hearing Saturday on the charge of bubing
colored voters A number of dainage suits
were entered in the Superior Court and one
In the Court of Common Pleas The Inven-
tory of the estate of the late Joun Cushing
shows property valued at $ius,308 74-Mr.
John R. Kensett was buried in Greenmount
Cemetery Governor-clect Russell, of Mas-
sachusetts, was in Baltimore July 4, 1888 The
board of directors of the House of Correction
held their monthly meeting The police are
still working on the Back Liver mysters, but
bave not been able yet to identify the
murdered woman Neighborhood Improve-
ment Association, No. 1, of Maltanmore
County discussed the amount of tures col-
leeted as compared with the expenditure on
ronds and bridges.
At the Baltimore Stock Exchange business
was quiet, but prices were steady, except for
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad common stock,
which sold at 08 for 15 shares. Whent and
corn closed steady in the primary markets.
In Wall street the money rate was manipa-
lated considerably, ranging from 4 to 11 per
cent., and closing at 5. There was a severe
pressure to sell stocks, and the market closed
active and weak, with some sharp declines.
Silver certificates gave way toward the close,
and the latest quotation was 102. The trunk
line presidents and representatives of the
Central Trame Association held a har-
monious meeting in New York, and decided
to restore freight rates on November 20. The
rate on wheat goes up to a 25-cent basis from
Trom Chicago to New York; on corn to
cents. It was also decided to abolish com-
missions on passenger traffic. The English
holders of Ohm and Mississippi Rasirpad
Company stock have appointed a committee
to call in the preference and conunan shures
and to issue certificates therefor. The object
is to look after dividends.
Complaint has been made to the Anne
Arundel Circuit Court of the conduet ot men
claiming to be United States marshals at
Tuesday's clection Washington county dem-
ocrats will hold a barbecue Wednesday to
celebrate their victory Tho Anne Arundel
Circuit Court has granted an injunction re-
straining the county comausstoners from
issuing bonds to the Drum Point Rallrond=
A sutisiactory test of the pneumatic gun
carriage was made at the naval orduance
proving grounds, Annapolis Ceel county
at Tuesday's election voted in favor of beens-
mg the sale of liquor.
It is thought a new tariff bill will be among
the first measures brought forward in the
- democratic House of Representatives Sen-
- ator Gorman ascribes the democratic weto-
-ries to the stay-at-home repubheans Officer
Block, of the Washington pohce torce, has
been ucquitted of the charges fled against
um.
The annual meeting of the Virginia Field
Sports Association will be held as Ameha
Court House, November 19 The wife of As-
seciate Justice Field is in Richmond The
Virgıma Court of Appeals disposed of a
number of case farmers' institute is to
be held in Charlottesville next month
Large numbers of immigrants are arriving at
Nortolk.
Cleveland for President, Hill for United
States Senate and Chapia for Governor is
considered to be the logical result of the late
democratic success Egrs and potatoes
brought Congressman Wallace to grief a
Brooklyn The Southern Society of New
York is arranging for a reception to South-
ern artists and literary people Judginents
were entered in New York against the
Duchess of Marlborough for English debts
aggregating 2074,181=Henry M. Stanley re-
plied to the recent entreiams concerning his
career in Afrien.
The Philadelphians are determined to deal
severely with ballot-box stuffers this time,
and there is a large crop of cases for the
courts Gor. Pattison intends to prosecute
his libellers to the fullest extent of the law
The next apportionment is expected to wipe
out the old Randall district of Pennsyl-
vanin An insane mother in Philadelphin
killed one of her children, attempted
another's life, tried to cut ber own throat
and is likely to die.
The C. J. Wells elevator at Buffalo, N. Y..
containing about 350,000 bushels of grain, was
Burned yesterday morning. Loss $230,000,
insurance $150,000 The business portion
of Truckce, Cal., about forty buildings, was
destroyed by fire M. L. Todd's lumber-yard,
the St. Clamo Hotel, Merers's Liquor Com-
pany and O'Lear's drug store, Denver, Col.,
were burned. Loss $100,000,
White Dunkerson & Co., warehousemen,
bave withdrawn from the tobacco corabi-
nation effected at Louisville, Ky., a few days
aga for the control of the Louisville and
Cincinnati markets. A similar combination
has been formed to control the Maysville and
Paducah markets, where considerable leaf
tobacco is sold every year.
An explosion of nantha gas at the Stand-
ard Oil Works at Long Island City yesterday
set fire to the oil in a small tank, which ex-
ploded. The burning off ran over Patrick
Halloran and fatally injured him. Thomas
Jrokson Was seriously burned, and John
O'Day, a boy, was badly injured.
W. B. Cottrell, the notorious Cedar Keys
desperado, was shot and instantly killed at
Montgomery, Ala., yesterday, by Chief of
Police Gerald.
Dr. Alexander & Co., propmetors of the
Alexander Kultting Factory, Decatur. IB.,
failed for $84,314, The firm attribute their
trouble to some unfortunate deals in real
estate and slow collections At a spectal
meeting of the Palmer (Mass) Carpet Com-
pany Festerday the stockholders voted to go
Into voluntary Insolvency W. G. Bell & Co.,
provisions, 52 Commercial street, Boston,
have made an assinment.
Mayor Grant last evening dispatched Super-
visor Kenny to Washington for a second
time in reference to the census matter. This
time Mr. Kenny is to ask Superintendent
Porter to allow him (Kenny) to make a copy
of the census returns of the second ward.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.