FALSE-ALARM BOY SENTENCED
Negro Who Sounded 15 Committed
To Reformatory.
Robert Duncan, colored, 15 years old,
who said he had turned in 15 of 18 false
alarms of fire in Northwest Baltimore
since August 5, was committed yesterday
to the Colored House of Reformation, at
Cheltenham, by Judge Williams, in the
Juvenile Court.
The boy's mother sald his mind is un.
balanced. He was arrested Tuesday after.
noon just after he had turned in a false
alarm from a box at Tessler and Biddle
streets.
OPPOSES $165,000 AWARD
Contractor Alleges Mistake In Bid
For Sewer Work By Rival.
A protest against the award of a $165.-
000 sewerage contract to B. F. Sweeten &
Son because the firm's name was not writ-
ten in the proper place on the proposal
sheet was filed with the Board of Awards
yesterday by James Ferry & Sons, the next
lowest bidders.
The Sewerage Commission recommended
that the contract be given to Sweeten &
Son because of a statement that while the
general superintendent signed the name in
the wrong place, the bid was in proper form
and the contract would be carried out.
Sweeten & Son were represented by coun-
sel. Mr. Ferry appeared in his own behalf
and asked that the award be withheld
until he could appear before the board with
counsel. The board granted his request
and deferred action on the contract until
next Wednesday. Mr. Ferry's firm offers
to build the sewer for $165.251.35.
The J. L. Robinson Construction Com-
pany, which recently withdrew its bid for
the contract for erecting No. 27 School-
house, Fayette and Chester streets, because
of what was said to have been an error
omitting $11,000 for the heating and venti-
lating plant, made a request for the return
of a certified check for $500, sent with the
bid. Mayor Preston said the firm should
not have made the mistake, and the board
decided to keep the check.
Meeting Of Inter-Church Club,
Members of an Inter-church club of
clergymen, of which Rev. Dr. J. F. Heisse,
pastor of Union Square Methodist Epis-
copal Church, is president, were enter.
tained Tuesday evening at a dinner at the
New Howard Hotel. The occasion was the
monthly meeting of the organization. Rev.
Dr. George R. Grose, of Grace Methodist
Episcopal Church, recently elected presi-
dent of De Pauw University, Greencastle,
Ind., read a paper on "Christian Science."
The next meeting will be entertained by
Rev. Dr. J. O. Spencer, president of Mor-
gan College.
Probationer Is Dismissed,
After four months' service in the Police
Department as a probationer. J. J. Flood.
of the Northeastern district, was dis-
missed by the Police Board yesterday. He
was charged with drinking intoxicating
liquor while on duty.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.