WIRELESS HERO'S FIRST TRIP
Initial Journey On Lexington Was
Taken For Love Of Adventure.
Philadelphia, Aug. 30.-"Jack" Sheetz,
the 16-year-old wireless operator whose
heroism saved the lives of the passengers
and crew of the Lexington, is a Philadel-
phia boy
This was "Jack's" first trip on the Lex-
ington, though he had made journeys on
other vessels equipped with wireless. His
spirit of adventure Inspired in him a de-
sire to visit every port on the coast.
For some time past he has been an en-
thusiastic amateur, operating a plant of
his own at his home in Wyncote, a suburb.
Recently he passed an unusually good ex-
amination at the Philadelphia Navy Yard,
Accordingly he applied to a wireless
school here after his school days were over
for the summer, and he was soon given a
berth on a steamer, making trips on the
Indian and other liners before being as-
signed to the Lexington on August 22 for
his first trip.
"Jack's" father, who is a well-to-do
business man, was delighted to hear that
his boy is a hero. He says he will quit
after this experience, however, as he was
only working during his vacation period
to improve his knowledge of wireless teleg
raphy. Early in September "Jack" will
return to his studies at the Cheltenham
High School, Elkins Park, near Phila-
delphia.
PHOSPHATE SCHOONER SINKS
Malcolm B. Seavey, Bound For Bal-
timore, Lost Off Carolina Coast.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.]
New York, Aug. 30.-According to a
wireless dispatch received here today from
Captain Kemble, of the Clyde lines Mo-
hawk, the schooner Malcolm B. Seavey,
bound for Baltimore from Port Tampa
with phosphate rock, has been sunk off
Georgetown, S. C. A seaman is reported
missing, but the remainder of the crew
were saved.
The Malcolm B. Seavey was commanded
by Capt. Henry Dodge, and her cargo was
consigned to the Piedmont-Mount Airy
Company, of Baltimore. The schooner was
consigned to Gray, Irelan & Co., ship-
builders.
She was a four-master, built at Bath,
Maine, in 1901, by the Gardiner G. Deer.
ing Company, managing owners of the
vessel. The Seavey was 204 feet long. 40
feet beam and 21 feet 5 inches molded
depth and registeed 1,247 tons gross. Cap.
tain Dodge was part owner of the vessel.
For many years the schooner had been
visiting Baltimore, bringing in phosphate
rock and returning to the South with ore.
For some time she had been under a time
contract with the Piedmont-Mount Airy
Company.
Crew At Pumps Two Days.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.)
Southport, N. C., Aug. 30.-Stripped of
her head sails and leaking badly, the
schooner Florence M. Pinley, disabled off
Cape Hatteras by the hurricane that swept
the Carolina coast. pas picked up yes-
terday by the tug Thermometer and towed
to this port for repairs.
The schooner was in a sorry plight, and
the crew was obliged to man the pumpא.
from early Monday morning until the tug
came to the rescue the following day.