HER FUNERAL HELD UP
Coroner Studying Case Of Woman
Taken To Court On Cot.
went to pay him that sum; another $500
would have gone to pay other expenses
which have accumulated during her 10
months of sickness, and the remaining
$1,000 would have kept her as long as she
would have lived. That was the way she
had figured it out.
"When she first talked of going into
court Dr. Mitnick and the lawyers tried
DEATH CERTIFICATE REFUSED to persuade her not to do so, but she in-
sisted on going. They are not to blame in
any way for her going. She insisted on
Physicians And Lawyers Are Criti-doing it herself and had said to me time
cised For Not Preventing Ex-
traordinary Occurrence.
Investigating Remarkable Case
The Health Department refused a
certificate of death in the case of
Miss Ida J. Brewer, who died several
hours after she was taken into court
on an ambulance cot to testify in her
suit against the United Railways and
Electric Company.
Coroner Baldwin is Investigating
and may make a post-mortem exami-
nation. He ordered the funeral post-
poned.
The State's Attorney will prob-
ably be asked for an opinfon as to
the legal aspects of this unusual case.
Miss Brewer's physician and coun-
sel were criticised for permitting her
to go to court when she was believed
to be in a dying condition. Her sis-
ter said she insisted on going.
The trip which immediately pre-
ceded her death was the second she
made to court in an ambulance.
and again that she could not die until she
had an opportunity of telling the judge
and the jury just how she had been hurt
and how she had suffered.
In Bed Since December.
"She was able to be about for a little
while after she was hurt, but it was not
long before she had to go to bed, and she
had been in bed ever since she came away
from the Johns Hopkins Hospital last
December. She had not been able to do
a stroke of work since she was hurt. Be-
fore that she worked as a coatmaker and
in dull times as a canvasser, taking orders
for coffee. She was strong and hearty
and weighed 206 pounds.
"Since that time the struggle has been
a hard one for all of us. I also work as a
coatmaker, but most of my time has been
spent nursing her, and I have not been
able to make much. I had to take my boy
out of school, and my daughter has had
to attend to the laundry agency we have
here. It has been hard, very hard.
Tells Of Two Accidents Same Day.
"You see, Ida was hurt twice the same
day. The morning of that day she was
going to Greenmount avenue to see an old
colored woman who had nursed her when
she was a child. This old woman had a
son who was in the Colored House of
Reformation at Cheltenham, and she was
anxious to get him out. Ida often went to
see her and was trying to help her get the
boy out. As she was leaving the car the con-
ductor pulled the bell cord before she was off
and she was thrown to the street. She
was badly shaken up, but managed to get
to the old woman's house. On her way
back she went to the same corner-Green-
mount avenue and Preston street and as
No case in the Baltimore courts in re-
cent years has caused more comment than
that of Miss Ida J. Brewer, who died
Thursday night after having been taken to
the Courthouse to testify in her suit she was about to board a car it was started
against the United Railways and Electric
Company for $20,000 damages for injuries
alleged to have been caused by the pre-
mature starting of a car on July 13 last.
too soon and she was thrown against the
platform. But for the fact that the old
colored woman was behind her helping her
on she would have been thrown to the
street. When she came home she was
limping, but was able to get about for some
time after that. She went to see Dr. Mit-
nick and he attended her until she went
to the hospital. She was there six weeks,
and when she got back Dr. Mitnick came
The physicians who attended Miss
Brewer have been criticised by members of
their own profession for allowing her to
be taken to the Courthouse when she was
belleved to be in a dying condition, and
lawyers criticise her attorneys, Messrs. to see her again and has been attending her
Jackson & Jackson and David Ash.
On
the other hand, her relatives say that Miss
Brewer went into court without solicita-
tion from her attorneys and that it was
at her urgent request that she was per-
mitted to go, even though she had to be
carried on an ambulance cot.
Post-Mortem Examination Likely.
ever since.
Hysterical At Courthouse.
"When she went to the Courthouse
Thursday and was not allowed to testify
she became hysterical. As soon as it was
announced that the case was postponed her
lips got blue and so did her finger nails, and
her arms to the elbows looked ashy, like a
dead person's. Then it was that she
screamed that she was dying. We took
her home as soon as we could, and, know-
ing that we could not get her upstairs in
her condition, we had a bed brought down
and she lay there till she died. She sank
One result of the case is that her fu-
neral, which was to have been held Sunday
afternoon, has been delayed pending an
investigation by Coroner Baldwin. A post-
mortem examination will probably be made. steadily and died a little before 10 o'clock
The Health Department refused to accept last night. It was the shock of disap-
the death certificate furnished by Dr. J. H. pointment that killed her."
Mitnick. It gave the cause of death as Dr. Mitnick said yesterday that Miss
heart failure and the secondary cause as Brewer had been hurt Internally, her kid-
injuries received in a street car accident.
The Health Department turned the certifi-
neys had been broken loose, and she had
suffered other Internal injuries from which
Her
cate over to Coroner Baldwin, who made
a careful examination yesterday afternoon,
Afterward he said that the case was one
of the most remarkable that had come un-
she would never have recovered.
death, he said, had been a matter of a com-
paratively short time.
Physician Says He Wasn't To Blame
"In view of her condition, how was it that
you permitted her to be taken into court?"
he was asked.
der his observation in an experience of 19
years as coroner, and that he would con-
sult the State's Attorney this morning as
to its legal phases. He thought it likely
that a post-mortem examination would have "Because I could not help myself," he re-
to be held in order to establish the direct
cause of death, and notified the family to
take no further steps toward the funeral
until he gave the word. An inquest will
follow the post-mortem examination.
Lawyers May Be Called To Explain.
plied. "She was in as good, if not better,
condition than she had been for some time,
and she insisted on going. I thought it
would do her more harm to refuse to allow
her to go than to let her go. I had no
idea that she would have such an attack.
Another phase is a probable investiga- She had set her heart on going, and as she
tion of the action of the lawyers by the had been taken to the Courthouse a week
Supreme Bench. It is understood that before, without any serious after effect, I
Judge Bond, before he left the city yester- thought she could make a second trip with-
day afternoon, called the attention of the out danger. Her death resulted from col-
Supreme Bench to the case. He would not lapse brought on by the shock of her dis-
talk about it for publication, saying that appointment in not being allowed to testify,
anything that came from the bench would aud I believe the shock of disappointment
appear to many in the light of a judg- in being forbidden to go to the courtroom
would have had results equally as serious.
She could not have lived long anyway, and
I thought it best to let her have her own
way in this matter."
Says Heart Disease Caused Death.
ment. It is understood that Judge Bond
feels that the physicians were responsible
for allowing Miss Brewer to be taken into
court.
The lawyers seem very much disgruntled
at the publicity that has been given the
extraordinary case, and when seen yester
day afternoon and offered the opportunity
to present their side in THE SUN and to
offer any justification they felt proper of
their course in allowing their client to be
taken to court while her condition was
Mr. Lee S. Meyer, who conducted the
case for the United Railways, denied that
Miss Brewer's condition was the result of
any injury received on a car. He said the
company knew that she had long been
sufferer from heart disease, and he stated
that her death was due to that. He said
precarious refused to make any statement the responsibility for her appearance in
for publication. Mr. Jackson contented court was upon the physicians rather than
himself with the statement that he had upon the lawyers. Dr. H. H. Biedler was
nothing to say for publication and would in court in the interests of Miss Brewer,
not even admit that he was counsel for Mr. Meyer declared, and that when her
Miss Brewer. Mr. Ash declared he would condition of collapse was commented upon
say nothing about the case and referred by Dr. Harrison, Dr. Bledler said that she
to newspaper accounts as "the slinging would live for 10 or 15 years.
of mud at reputable members of the bar." Dr. Biedler said last night that Mr.
Impressed With Gravity Of Case. Meyer must have been mistaken, that he
The seriousness of the case had evident- had said nothing of the sort, and that he
ly impressed itself upon them soon after would not even say that about himself.
their client had been taken into court, for "I did say Miss Brewer should not
soon after Judge Bond had refused to al be in court, and told Mr. Meyer that if
low the trial to go on newspaper men she were not taken out soon she would
were requested not to print what had oc- never be taken out alive," said Dr. Biedler.
curred, and a newspaper man who at- Dr. A. C. Harrison, who had been sum-
tempted to take a photograph of Miss moned to testify for the company, said he
Brewer as she lay upon her cot in a cor- never saw and never expects to see a more
ridor of the Courthouse was so interfered inhuman scene and that even a layman
with by one of the lawyers that he could could see that Miss Brewer was near death
not get the picture and an attempt was
made to smash his camera.
'There has been talk of referring the
case to the Bar Association. Mr. Albert
C. Ritchie, chairman of the grievance com-
mittee of the association, to which the
case would naturally be referred should it
be taken so far, said that he did not be-
lieve any proceedings could or should be
hrought against Jackson & Jackson or
David Ash.
"I do not mean to say that this is post-
tive," he said, "but as I see it now there is
nothing that comes within the jurisdiction
of our committee. Judge Bond informed
me that he investigated and learned both
from the lawyers and Dr. Jacob H. Mit-
nick, the physician, that the witness was
brought into court on the physician's ad-
vice that she was able to testify. She did
not show any serious signs until she was
in court.
"I wish to state, however, that I have
had no opportunity to make an investiga-
tion, and I should deplore the creation of
an impression that I, as chairman of the
grievance committee of the Bar Associa-
tion, would express an opinion without first
having made an investigation in which the
facts should be thoroughly disclosed; and
I would equally deplore the creation of an
impression that in a case of this kind I
would regard the very meagre knowledge
which at present I have as justifying me in
making an investigation at all"
Second Trip To Court In Ambulance
The trip to the Courthouse, after which
she soon died, was the second that Miss
Brewer had taken. On Thursday of last
week, just a week before, she was taken
to the Courthouse in an ambulance, in the
hope that she would be allowed to tell
her story to the jury. The case had been
called for that day and was set for trial
in the City Court. Her relatives assert
that counsel for the railway company knew
that she was waiting in the ambulance on
the Courthouse plaza and that they had the
case removed from the City Court, to the
Court of Common Pleas. This was a great
disappointment to her and the postpone-
ment of the case, they say, had a serious
effect on her nervous system.
"The real cause of Ida's death," said her
sister, Mrs. Arabella Linthicum, with
whom she lived at 315 West Madison
street, "was disappointment and shock at
not being allowed to tell the judge and the
jury how she was injured. She had in-
sisted on going into court and when she
was notified as to the day on which her
case was to come up for trial she kept
trying to nerve herself up so she would be
when she was in court.
able to get there and testify. She kept
saying: 'I know that if I can tell the judge
and the jury how I was hurt and let them
see my condition, they will give me a ver-
dict for enough to pay my bills and to pro-
vide for me for the little time I have left
to live.'
Says $500 Was Offered.
"An offer to compromise the case for
$500 was made soon after she was hurt,
and that offer made her worse. When the
case was up on Thursday her lawyers said
they could compromise the case for $1,500.1
That made her almost hysterical, and she
said it was far too little after all she had
suffered and it would not be enough to pay 1
her bills. She had been unable to do a bit
of work since she was hurt, and if she had
agreed to take the $1,500 she would only
have had $1,000 after the lawyers had
their third. She was willing to compro-1
lawyers had got their third, would have
mise the case for $3,000, which, after the 1
left $2,000. She expected to pay Dr. Mit-1
titled to, although she had made no agreg
nick $500, which she thought he was en-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.