THE CITY COURTS.
Bitters Shippedas Mineral Water-Mrs.
Malloy's Estate-Notes.
Willoughby M. McCormick, a manufactur-
ing chemist at 308 West German street, was
tried in the United States District Court yes-
terday on the charge of violating the inter-
state commerce act. The allegation was that
on the 30th of last August Mr. McCormick
shipped sixty cases of proprietary bitters to
Columbia, S. C., but violated the law by
marking the shipment as mineral water. The
evidence showed that bitters are classed as
first-class freight, and the rate is 89 cents a
hundred pounds: mineral waters are fourth-
class, and the rate is 53 cents. The weight
of the shipment in question was 3.000
pounds, and the saving in freight by the
alleged wrong marking was $10 80. W. T.
Martin, of Columbia, S. C.. testified that he
ordered the goods. lie paid the freight on min-
eral water, but paid Mr. McCormick for bit-
ters. Gilbert J. Badger,the clerk who shipped
the goods, testified that the order was re-
ceived from a traveling saleman, whose letter
directed that the shipntent be made as min-
eral water and not as bitters in order to
secure the lower rates. He had done the sume
thing at other times. Mr. McCormick did not
testity, but the defense was that there was no
evidence to show he had knowledge of the
occurrence. The jury had not agreed when
court adjourned, and they were given leave
to bring in a sealed verdict. The penalty for
the offense upon conviction is a fine up to
$5,000 or imprisonment up to three years. A.
G. Safford, of Washington, who represented
the interstate commerce commission, assisted
District Attorney Ensor in prosecuting the
case. James Pollard conducted the defense.
The judges of the Orphans' Court heard
argument in the controversy between Mrs.
Frances Boucher and her stepfather, James
Malloy, both of hom claim the right to ad-
minister upon the estate of Mrs. Eliza C.
Malloy, mother of the one and wife of the
other. Mrs. Malloy died early the present
month, leaving an estate valued at about
$20,000. Mrs. Boucher, who is the only child,
claims the entire estate by virtue of a deed
executed by Mr. and Mrs. Malloy in 1800, In
which each renounced all claim to the other's
property. Mr. Malloy contends that the deed
in question was only a temporary surrender
during his wife's life. The case was argued
by Thomas R. Clendinen for Mrs. Boucher
and George R. Gaither. Jr., for Mr. Malloy.
The court held the matter under advisement.
In the case of George Whitelock and Danl.
B. Dorsey, trustees. against Sarah E.
Westwood and others, Judge Dennis, of the
Circuit Court, decided that the defendants,
= who were the reversioners under a ninety-
nine years' lease, must bear the costs of
chancery proceedings to extinguish the rent
under a covenant of redemption. The rent
is paid by the trustees out of a lot of ground
and improvements at the corner of Greene
and Saratoga streets. It was devised in 1879
so that it could not be extinguished by a
mere conveyance, but only under a decree
of court after regular proceedings in equity,
which were taken by Schmucker & White-
lock, solicitors for the trustees.
A formal deed of separation was recorded
by Henry Bruuing and his wife, Christina L.
Bruning. The deed recites that differences
have arisen between theim, in consequence of
which they have separated and intend for
the future to live apart. All marital rights
are renounced by both parties to the deed,
and each also renounces any claim he or she
may have to the property of the other.
Neither waives any cause he or she may have
for divorce now or hereafter. The husband's
signature is in German and the wife's in
English. The deed was sworn to before Jus-
tice of the Peace Benzinser.
Joseph Ratber, restaurant-keeper, applied
In the Court of Common Pleas for the benefit
of the insolvent laws. J. Fred. Requardt
was appointed preliminary trustee. Accord-
ing to the schedule filed in the case there are
no assets, and the liabilities aggregate about
$2,500.
George Thomas, the colored boy convicted
in the United States District Court of rifling
a mail pouch, was sentenced by Judge Mor-
ris to two years in the Colored House of Ref-
ormation at Cheltenham. Thomas robbed
the mall while mail-carrier between Easton
and Matthews, Tulbot county, Md.
The Rye Valley Mining Company was in-
corporated by Miller R. Creighton, Lewis
Cassard, Jr., Wesley M. Oler, Jesse L. Cus-
sard and Wm. C. Carman. The incorpora-
tion is for general mining purposes. It has
a capital stock of $500,000, divided into $10
shares.
Alonzo E. Thomas, of 1603 West Franklin
street, the United States Express Company's
imessenger under indictmerit in Washington
on the charge of grand larceny, was released
on $2500 ball by United States Commissioner
Rogers. His surety was Joseph A. Clark,
118 St. Paul strect.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.