garrison. After this preparation Belle and
her sister "Flo" made their debut on the
stage of the barrack, where their mother
played the Goddess of Beauty. From thero
the girls graduated to the London musie
halls, and soon became the favorites of the
"bloods" of England's aristocracy and other
"high livers." Bell Bilton first imet Viscount
Dunlo at the Corinthian Club, an institution
frequented by the demi-mondaines of the
"upper" class and the fast young "sweils" of
London. At that tine Lady Dunlo already
had in her train the wealthy young Hebrew,
Wertheliner, with whose name her own was
afterward associated in the divorce court.
Wertheimer was undoubtedly willing to
marry Belle at that thue, but the title of
Viscount Biiton seems to have destroyed his
chances. Young Dunlo was then an empty-
headed boy of twenty, and had just left col-
lege without knowing any more about the
world than an "unlicked eub," as a gentle-
man once remarked.
HOW SHE DAZZLED LONDON.
The character of the late Eart of Cladearty
did not show up very brightly at the divorce
trial. The old Earl admitted on the witness
stand that he sent his son abroad a day or so
after his marriage in order that he might
leave his wife, Belle Bilton, without money
or other means of support in order that ne-
cessity might drive her back to her tormer
life, and thus make it easy for young Dunlo
to obtain a divorce from her. This class of
testimony made Belle Bilton a sort of hero-
ine, so that when she won her suit she be-
came inmensely popular in certain eireles,
handsome carriages and fast horses,
and her dresses anel and Jewels were the talk of
London. She received a salary of $300
week, though almost utterly devoid of real
talent, and played to packed houses nightly;
people of the best classes crowding the boxes
and stails in order to see her. Every evening
Lady Dunto would drive to the theatre, where
she was playing in the leading role of an ab-
surd burlesque called "Venus." in a hand-
some brougham, with a coactoman and 10bt-
man on the box, attended sometimes by her
husnand, but more otten by Isidore Wert-
Reimer, and the general opinion formed was
that the latter was supplying the funds for
the Duule establishment, as the rich old Earl
of Clancarty cut off bis son's allowance so
soon as qe patched up his differences with his
wifo.
THE ESTATE.
The Claucartys, whose family name is
Trench, are of ancient French extraction,
and are said to have formerly been lords of
the seigneurie of La Trenete in Poltou.
They are related to Lord Ashton, of the
Irish peeraze, to which tamily the late Arch-
bishop Trench, of Dublin, belonged.
The ancestor ncestor of the family, Frederick dela
Trenche, left France in 1975 and removed to
Ireland in 1631, where he purchaset the lands
and castle of Gurbally. William Power
Keating Trench, borne in 1741, and member
of Parliament for County Galway from 1703
to 1797, was elevated to the peerage of Ire-
land in 1997 by the title of Baron Kileonnel.
He was created Viscount Duulo in 1801 and
advanced to the caridom of Clancarty,
County Cork, in 183, in consequence of his
descent from Elena MacCarty, wife of John
Power, daughter of Cormac Oge MacCarty,
Viscount Muskerry, and sister of Donough
MacCarty, Earl of Chancarty in the time of
Charles 11. 11. The second Earl second Earl of Clanearty.
Richard, was created a
Clancarty,
Kingdoms rated created a peer of the United
as Baron Trench in 181ō and was
raised to an Engish viscounty as Viscount
Clanearty in 182. in 1813 he was ambassador
to The Hague, and was created by the King
of the Netherlands in 1818 Marquis of Heus-
den.
The fourth Earl, whose death is now an-
nounced, was the eldest son of the third
Earl, and was born in Dublin Im 1831. He
wus educated at Cheltenhem and at Trinity
College, Cambridge, and in 1865 married a
daughter of the Marquis of Bristol. He
succeeded to the family titles and estates in
1872, but has never figured prominently in
vublic affairs. His possessions included
some 24,000 acres of land in County Galway
and as the Trenches are proverbially good
landlords, the valuation of the rents is set at
$12,000 per annum, and that is not considered
tar short of the present actual income of the
property. In addition to this he owned an
estate in Roscommon that paid him in the
neighborhood of £1,000 a year more, making
£13,000 in all.
BELLE BILTON A COUNTESS,
1 London Concert Hall Singer's Luck-
Her Baltimore Admirer.
LONDON, May 29.-Richard Somerset le l'oer
Trench, fourth Earl of Clancarty, died sud-
denly today.
By the Earl's death Viscount Dunlo, his
eldest son and the husband of Belle Bilton,
the English music hall singer, becomes Earl
of Clancarty and Belle Biiton becomes Count-
ess of Clancarty.
HER DIVORCE SCIT.
a
Belle Bilton and her sister, "Flo" Bilton,
are well known in the London music halls'
world. Belle's most noted appearance before
the public was in July, 1590, when she was
The defendant in a suit for divorce brought
against her by her husbaad, Viscount Dunlo.
case opened on Jul before Sir
James Hannen. Sir Charles Russell appeared
For the Viscount. Isadore Wertheimer
wealthy West End dealer in bric-a-brae, was
the corespondent. Young Dunto, who is de-
Scribed a weak-oyed, weak-faced, beardles
Doy, with reddish hair, sought a divorce
from his attracti ttractive wife on the ground of the
Entter's Intimacy ith Wertheimero
eswore that she was not guilty,
and that it was "all Dunlo's fault," because
he left her soon after after their marriage, marriag and
went off to the the continent without providing
Kor her support. ort. Mr. Lockwood, Belle's
counsel, afterward withdrew this this portion of
her plea, and reli aud relied upon her unqualified
Cienial of the charge of intimacy.
During the course of the examination Vis-
count Dunlo said that he married Belle Bil-
tou in July, 1880, at n registry office without
the knowledge of his father, and that as it
was arranged previous to the ceremony that
he was to make a tour of the world, he did
so soon after the ceremony had taken place.
Letters which had passed between Viscount
Dunlo and his wife were read in court to the
Great amusement of all present. They sug-
rested great affection on both sides. In one
Retter the Viscount thanked God that they
were married, and Bette in another wrote:
Wicked, wicked days, why don't they fly
Taster," assured Dunlo that whatever
naughty people" said about her and Wert-
heimer was "utter bosh."
A servant of Lady Dunlo swore that she
saw Wertheimer come out of her mistress'
room before her marriage.
VERDICT IN HER FAVOR.
The trial ended on July 30, Lady Dunlo
Fecuring a verdict in her favor. She left the
court amid a shower of cheers. The court
granted the costs of the action against Vis-
count Dunlo.
Sir James Hannen's charce was unique in
the annals of British jurisprudence in that it
contained a study of Bohemian lito and the
classes associated with such an existence.
He warned the jurors that "Bohemians"
were people whose life was quite foreign to
the ordinary juryman's notious, and, there-
fore, it must be judged from a peculiar point
of view.
Soon after the suit was settled, or early in
Aurust, 1890, Viscount and Lady Dunlo be-
came reconciled, and the latter toured the
British provinces in the character of Venus.
Previous to so doing Viscount Dunlo is sald
to have shaken hands with Wertheimer and
to have occupid the same box with the latter
at the Comody Theatre.
ADVENTURE WITH A BALTIMOREAN.
In September, 1890, Lady Dunio is again in
court. This time as a witness against an
American adventurer, Alden Carter Weston,
who was sentenced to seven years' penal
servitude with hard labor for forging Wert-
heimer's name to checks which were cashed
by Ludy Dunlo. The evidence given at this
trial was of a startling nature. Weston, who
is said to be of Baltimore, Md., imet
Lady Dunlo at a music hall, and, it was
alleged, oventually deserted his wife and
family for her and spent his entire for-
tune upon her. When he came to the end of
his bank account, Weston resorted to crimi-
nai means in order to obtain more money to
lavish upon the music hall sfar, and some
time in 1886 he was sentenced to eighteen
months'aimprisonment on a charge of con-
spiracy to defraud. Upon the expiration of
his sentence Weston continued his intimacy
with Belle Bilton, who, while Weston was in
prison, had married Viscount Dunlo, by
whom she had previously had a child. It was
asserted at the time of Weston's second trial
that the charge against him upon this occa-
Dunto cashed, was trumped
tion, that of it of forging the the checks which Lady
was trumped up against him
by Viscount Dunlo and Lady Dunio and
Wertheimer in order to get him out of the
way. It was also then stated that Weston
ston
would surely kill Lady Dunlo, Viscount
-Dunlo and Wertheimer when his term of im-
prisonment expired.
HER CAREER IN MUSIC BALLS,
Since that time very little bas been heard
of Lady Dunlo except that she was continu-
ing her career of music hall triumphs at a
higher salary than she had ever earned be-
fore.
The father of the present Countess of Clan-
carty was a respected sergeant of artillery,
formerly stationed at Woolwich, and she is
said to have commenced a fast ilfe at a very
early age among the soldiers of the Woolwich
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.