ANSWERS TO QUERIES
M. & B.-Where and how can I obtain
a list of the patents issued for the week
ending August 16? That is, with their
patent numbers. I want to get a copy of
patent
the specifications of a patent of an In-
ternal combustión gas turbine engine is-
ued to Mr. Edwin Mr. Edwin Atwell, the report of
which issue was in THE SUN August 17.
A monthly index of patentees and in-
ventions, alphabetically arranged, with date
of patent, number, etc., can be secured. from
the United State Patent Office at a cost of
10 cents. A copy of the specifications and
drawings of any patented article can be
secured from the same office at a cost of
5 cents.
READER.- Give me the address of where
I can get a catalogue of the Notre Dame
School.
Write to the secretary of Notre Dame,
of Maryland, Charles Street avenue.
ANXIOUS INQUIRER. Give the proc-
ess of cleaning and refinishing antique
furniture. Is turpentine and beeswax good
to polish a dining table?
We cannot advise you how to treat your
furniture, as you have not told what kind
of wood it is. You had better have it done
by a furniture repairer. However, if you
wish to remove smears, spots of superficial
scratches, you can do this effectively with
a piece of old flannel wrung nearly dry in
kerosene.
If you desire a "wax finish," dissolve
thinly shaved paraffin in rather hot tur-
pentine and polish. The ability to burnish
up antiques to almost their former beauty
is acquired only through years of experi-
ence and work.
A FARMER'S DAUGHTER.1. From
what institutions in Baltimore can I hire
a boy or girl (white or colored), to assist
about a farmhouse?
2. What is the proper temperature for
cream when poured into the churn?
3. What is the proper pronunciation of
chauffeur? Of garage?
1. St. Mary's Industrial School, Wilkens
avenue; the Maryland School for Boys,
Frederick road, Baltimore county (Balti-
more office. 601 Calvert Building): Henry
Watson Children's Aid Society, 15 East
Pleasant street: Cheltenham School (for
colored boys), Cheltenham, Md., and you
could also apply to Supervisors of City
Charities, Courthouse.
2. During the summer the best churning
temperature is 57° or 58° Fahrenheit dur
ing the late fall and winter 62° to 64° are
found to be preferable.
3. Chauffeur is pronounced "sho-fur,"
the accent is on the last syllable, "o" as ir
old, "u" as in furl.
Garage is pronounced gar-aj, the accent
on the first syllable, first "a" as in fat,
second "a" as in senate; or, gar-azh, the
accent on the last syllable, the first "a" as
in ask, the second as in arm. Garage is
recent in English and has acquired no set-
tled pronunciation.
C. C. W. Give the names and addresses
of some of the largest flying machine
manufacturers in the United States.
American Aeroplane Supply House,
Hempstead, L. I., N. Y. Chicago Acro
Works, 164 North Wabash avenue, Chi-
cago, Ill.; Curtiss Aeroplane Company,
1737 Broadway. New York city; Detroit
Acroplane Company, Detroit, Mich.; R. O.
Rubel. Jr., & Co., Louisville, Ky.; William
F. Rudolph, 1308 Girard avenue, Phila-
delphia; F. P. Schneider, 1020 East One
Hundred and Seventy-eighth street, New
York city; Wright Company, Dayton,
Ohio Queen Monoplane Company, One
Hundrede and Ninty-third street and Am-
sterdam avenue, New York city; Chicago
Embossed Moulding Company, 133 Cly-
bourne avenue, Chicago, III.
Χ. Χ. Χ.-1. Does the Young Men's
Christian Association give a course in ste
nography and typewriting?
2. What is the charge?
3. Must one be a member?
.1. Yes.
2. Fifteen dollars for the term commenc-
JEMS FROM THE POETS
TO THE VIRGINS.
BY ROBERT HERRICK.
Gather ye rosebuds while ye may,
Old Time is still a-flying;
And this same flower that smiles today
Tomorrow will be dying.
The glorious lamp of Heaven, the sun,
The higher he's a getting,
The sooner will his race be run,
And nearer he's to setting.
The age is best which is the first,
When youth and blood are warmer:
But, being spent, the worst and worst
Times still succeed the former.
Chen be not coy, but use your time,
And, while ye may, go marry;
For having lost but once your prime,
You may forever tarry.
ing in October and ending in the spring.
3. Yes, the membership fee is $5.00.
G. N. What place in the city is the
highest point, and also the lowest?
The highest point within the city limits
is at the standpipe in Arlington, where the
elevation is 460 fect; the lowest point is
along the harbor, where the elevation is
zero.
i
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.