A BLOW FOR STALLINGS
Defeat Of Yesterday Shows How
Incorrect His Dope Was.
ORIOLES ARE SOME HITTERS
Sam Frock Is Slated To Pitch To-
day, And Addie And Vickers To-
morrow-Other Baseball Gossip.
Well! well! that Oriole team certainly is
going some.
The way the boys hit yesterday must
have made poor old George Stallings, who
dropped.from the New York Yankees to
the Buffalo Bisons, feel pretty grouchy.
When the birds were in Buffalo on their
long trip around the circuit, Stallings uon-
chalantly remarked that when Baltimore
reached the pretty little city in which he
now is residing that the Bisous would be
looking down at the Birds. That remark
came when Jack Dunn wanted him to play
a double-header. Now George, it's up to
you, old chap, eat those words.
Of course a victory is a victory, whether
won by one run or 10, but it is gratifying
to see the Orioles gather 14 hits in a game.
Then, just think, two of those bingles were
for two bases and one was for three. Egan
got the longest hit of the game and
Schmidt was on the job twice with doubles
which cleaned up the bases. The Flying
Dutchman also foudn a single in his bat
bag and uncorked it at the right time.
Jimmy Dygert shared the batting honors
with Schmidt. He got three singles and
each helped boost the score. As a matter
of fact James is showing the fans his real
hitting class. It will be remembered that
he got three hits out of four times up in
the last game he worked in Baltimore.
Then to repeat yesterday simply means
that his batting average will take a big
jump this week.
Incidentally, that young Dygert is pitch-
ing some ball. Ilis last game in Baltimore
would have been a shut-out had not Walsh
lost a fly ball in the sun, and Jim would
have whitewashed the Bisons yesterday
had he not made a wild throw to first to
catch a runner off the base. Just previous
to these games he twirled two shut-outs.
When Jimmy is right there is no better
pitcher in the league, and it seems that
L is just about right now.
Sam Frock, another young clouting
pitcher, is to work for the Orioles this aft-
ernoon. It surely behoores Samuel to de-
liver the goods both ways, as Dygert did.
Your Uncle Reuben dropped into Buffalo
with his gripsack in hand and found all
his teammates at the Cheltenham Hotel.
Everyone welcomed the Rube and he says
he is ready to work. Jack Dunn declares
he will work Vickers and Adkins tomorrow
in the double-header. The Bisons will have
■ to travel some to beat that pair of pitchers.
Mickey Corcoran had a great day yes-
terday. He was in his home town, Buffalo,
and every time he visits that city some of
the fans yell and hoot at him. Mickey
does not mind and the crowd must have
had a pretty bad heartache yesterday
when Mickey got in his two timely singles.
Some player, that boy! He is as earnest as
the day is long and works every minute he
Is on the field.
Murray, the outfielder Stallings picked
up from St. Louis, was in the Eastern
= League some time ago, but neither Dygert
nor Egan knew him. In consequence Mur-
ray got three hits. But the last time up
Dygert went after him in the real style
and made the newcomer fan.
Bill Byers' hand is mending rapidly and
the big catcher soon will join the team.
Bill saw the game as played on the para-
gon board and he rooted like sin.
It is believed that Manager Stallings will
send in Stroud to pitch against the Birds
this afternoon. Stroud is considered the
best pitcher on the Bisons' staff, but Mer-
ritt was always regarded with suspicion
too.
Unless the indignation of the Boston
fans prevents it, or some unforeseen ob-
struction arises, Buck Herzog, the star
shortstop of the Boston National League
baseball club and one of the league's lead.
ers, will be traded to Pittsburg for. Vin-
cent Campbell, who has of late been show-
ing considerable class.
The story leaked out yesterday from one
who is close to the National League lead-
ers, and if Messrs. Clarke and Russell can
get together, the deal will be put through.
Herzog would be glad to get away from
Boston, as he does not consider that be
has been getting near as much as he is
worth. The small-sized rebellion which
he stirred up a few days ago has not died
out entirely, and Russell's disciplinary
measures did not cause him to warm up
any to the boss.
Campbell played in the game there yes-
terday and he raced around the sacks like
a greyhound. While he is new in the big
league, it is predicted that he will fill Her.
zog's shoes capably.
While it is never considered good taste
to say "I told you so," that Herzog mat-
ter up in Boston turned out pretty much
as predicted in The Sun. It was remarked
in this colunin that it seemed strange for
Herzog to be accused of loafing. One of
the Boston papers recently published a
version of the suspension which seems to
bear out The Sun's belief. The story
from the Boston paper follows:
"Several of the members of the Rustler
team are greatly perturbed over that fine
which was slipped to Herzog and which
caused him to quit the club. Some of them
i
even appear to see some of that 'Mene,
Mene, Tekel, Upharsin' stuff in it for
themselves.
"A couple of them were discussing the
mix-up last evening in a South End drug
store. Said one:
"'I see where my money. for the winter
eats goes glimmering if I don't heave them
over to first between the knees and the
skyline.'
"'You've got that cased out correctly,'
replied the other, 'and some time you'll
slip over a low one which will rap the man-
ager on the ankle and your job will be
gone. I'd sure hate to be an infielder."
"And then they talked a lot more-uot
for publication, but just among themselves.
'Indifferent playing," the charge upon
which Herzog was fined, appeared to be a
great jokė with all but the infielder.
"'I've played on several baseball clubs
since I first broke into the minors from
the backwoods,' said one, but this is the
first time I ever knew that a first base.
mán's inability to protect his shins was
classed as indifferent playing on the part
of the man who barked the shins with a
baseball.'
"'Herzog's offense was that Tenney
couldn't stand the kidding of the New
1
York players. Herzog made a couple of
throws that a first baseman would have
smothered. but they salled past first and
went to the grandstand. Then came the
kidding froin the New York bench, and
1
1
that night Herzog was fined. Oh, that in-
different playing stuff is great.'
"Then they all started down to Revere
1
to spend the evening throwing balls at an
African Dodger, just for practice."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.