SALISBURY'S DEATH.
Verdict of Lack of Attention Given by a
Jury of Inquest.
The jury of inquest convened last night at
the western police station by Coroner Davis
rendered the following verdict: "Charles
Salisbury came to his death March 6, 1893, at
the Maryland University Hospital, from the
effects of blood poisoning, caused by frosted
feet contracted whilean Inmate of the Colored
House of Reformation, at Cheltenham,
Prince George's county, Md., through a lack
of attention on the part of the officers of the
institution." Salisbury and Hall, both col-
ored, were brought to the Maryland Univer-
sity Hospital from the Cheltenham House of
Reformation February 8 suffering from gan-
grene of the feet, caused by frost. The feet
of both boys were nipputated February 10,
and Salisbury died March 6.
Hall was brought into the jury-room at the
inquest in the arms of a policeman, and after
giving his evidence he was returned to the
hospital in the patrol wagon. He said: "My
feet were affected with chilblains. I bad no
stockings and my feet hurt me so I could not
wear one of my shoes. I lost the shoe, and
without stockings and wearing only one shoe
I carried clothes from the hot laundry to a
line in the House of Reformation yard and
hung them up. As a punishment for losing
my shoe I was put in a co'd cell, destitute
of furniture, and remained there a week.
I told an officer of the institution on a Sat-
urday that my feet were frosted and the
officer said he would see about it. On Mon-
day I was released. I lived on bread and
water while in the cell. I had no stockings
and only the one shoe, so I wrapped myself,
feet and all, in two light single blankets
to keep warm. I was without stockings
three weeks. I was taken to the sick-room
Monday after I was let out of the coll. The
doctor came to see me there Wednesday and
dressed my feet." After being treated by the
physician at Cheltenham Salisbury and Halt
were sent to the hospital in Baltimore.
Gen. John W. Horn, superintendent of the
House of Reformation, said: "Both Hall and
Salisbury were crazy boys, Hall being only
eilly. It was not uncommon for the boys to
take off their shoes while at work in the
laundry, but they were punished when
caught going out without them. There is a
stocking factory in the house, and the boys
could have all the stockings they wanted to
wear. The institution is so comfortable
that two boys discharged last winter
returned and begged to be taken back.
Salisbury and Hall were put in cells more to
protect them from running out in the snow
barefoot than for punishment. Hall had on
two pairs of stockings and one shoo when bo
caine to my office after being released from
the cell."
4
Dr. C. C. Spruill, resident physician at the
Maryland University Hospital, said: "It
is possible that Salisbury's feet might have
been frozen during the time he was said to
have been in the cell."
Others who testiſled were Charles N. Wood,
colored, an inmate, Dr. J. Latimer, physician,
and Nicholas Langenfledt, baker, all con-
nected with the House of Reformation.
Robert R. Scannel was foreman of the jury
I of inquest.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.