GOV, BROWN'S MESSAGE,
Governor Brown's message to the Legis.
lature is a straightforward, comprehensivo.
business hke document, in which the condi
tion and needs of the State are presented in
a clear and comunon-sense twanner. The
Mustrations of public and benevolent insti-
tutions which accompany the document
sent to the legislature, and the explana
tory references of a legal or historical char
acter trade m connection with many of the
subjects discussed, will enable not merely
the members of the General Assembly but
the people at large to appreciate more
clearly the legislation which may be do
manded t suggested in reward to theⅢ.
The Governor's statement of the financial
condition of the State shows that there was
a reduction of 2476,48188 in the disburse-
ments of the fiscal year 190 as compared
with watter deducting legislative ex-
penses, which were pald during the latter
year. By an examination of the tables
showing the present Habilities of the State
and the ostonated value of her assots, says
the Governor, it can be seen that the net
debt of the State 14 SLA150S 21, these estl-
mates not ineluding the State's unpro-
ductive assets, such as its interest in rull-
roads within the State, which have not been
a success thuancally, and its holdings in the
Chesapeake and thio Canal Cotupany, to-
gether with interest on the same, and shures
of stock n several turnpike and bridge
companies.
The question of the revaluation and assess
ment of property naturally occupies a lead-
ing place in the message, and the Governor
does not hesitate to deal with the general
principles involved frankly and directly.
Recognizing the ditmeulties and differences
of opinion sumrouwing the subject of taxa-
tion, he suggests the propriety of separating
the questions ordinarily presented by a bill
for the general revaluation of property. He
tharetove recommends that the Legislature
first pass a bill embodying the provisions
necessary for the revaluation and
test
ment of all property in the State which shall
be subject to valuation and assessthent on
June 1, 1894, and afterward to re-enact or
amend in such manner as it may derm
proper the first, second, third, fourth and
fifth sections of article S1 of the Maryland
Code of title "ftevenue and Taxes," so
Ibat what is taxable and what is exempted
from taxation shall be deänitely ascertained
before the close of the sesston.
He recommends in addition to the general
nasessment bill the passage of a local law
for Baltimore empowering the Mayor and
City Council to exereise its discretion in
providing for the taxation of property
within the corporate limits for municipal
purposes. In framing measures for the re-
valuation and nasessment of property duo
regard, adds the Governor, should be given
to the condition of the business interests,
agricultural and commercial, of the State
'at large, including the city of Baltimore,
from which the state is deriving about two-
thirds of all the revenues recoived into its
treasury.
He wisely cautions the General Assembly,
in an italicized paragraph, that "extremo
Jegislation is always dangerous nad Bi-
tended by many difficulties. On the other
band, conservativo legislation produces, as
a'rule, better results and is more necept-
able to the people of a conservative Com-
monwealth such as Maryland."
With regard to the oyster question, which
the message describes as one of the issues
of the hour in Maryland," the Governor
presents the well-known facts and figures
which force the subject upon the atten-
Son of the Legislature," and brietly out-
lines some of the suggestions that have been
made for the solution of the problem. The
subject is one of such great importance,
however, that he considers it best tu reservo
Its fuli consideratlan for a special message,
in which he proposes to embody specitte
recommendations.
Especial attention is called to the impor-
tance of improving our roads and road laws,
and the leading suggestions that have been
made in regard to a general system of im-
provement are briely reviewed. The Gov
ernor points out that there is nuiversal
agreement upon the pout that the ronds
sbould be constructed upon scientific prim
ciples, under the supervision of a combe
tent engineer or engineers, as road-making
is an art which cau properly be applied only
by those who have been especially tramed
in the theory and practice." In connection
with the widespread complaint of the in-
orense of tramps and vegrants in the State,
and the landequacy of the House of Corree-
tion to the confinement and employment of
this class of offenders, the Governor sug-
gests the passage of a law by which trampe
and vagabonds, as dettaed by statute, may
be sentenced in the different counties to
labor upon the public ronds or village and
town districts, under the direction of the
county commissioners.
The Governor describes in detail the con-
dition of the various penal, reformatory and
pharitablo institutions of the State, and
makes such recommendations as seem es-
santial to their lmprovement or efßciency.
He refers to the insaequacy of the peniten-
tiary to accommodate the vastly increasing
demands upon the institution," and adds
that at a lster period in the session he may
make detailed recommendations with re-
spect to the proposed enlargement. The
Legislature is urged to provide other ac-
commodations than the House of Correc-
tion for the imbecile paupers who are now
committed to it as vagrants and on other
abargea, and an additional institution or in-
stitutions for the insane. Gratification is ex-
pressed at the progress made during the
past year by the Maryland Agricultural
College, and it is commended most heart
fly to the lavorable consideration of the
General Assembly. The Governor dwells
earnestly upon the important work done by
the charitable and benevolent institutions
of the State, and recommends that the Leg-
islature should continue the appropriations
which it has been accustomed to make for.
their support.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.