PHILADELPHIA AFFAIRS.
Reading Railroad Company to
Build a Great Abattoir.

HOT WEATHER CLOSES FACTORIES.
Many Cases of Sunstroke Reported at
the Hospitals-Value of the City's Tax-
able Property-The Iron Hall Funds-
Architects and the Bourse Contract.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.)
PHILADELPHIA, Aug. 10.-The Philadel-
phia and Reading Railrond has completed its
plans for a great abattoir to be built on the
river front at Port Richmond, and work will
be at once commenced. The buildings will
cover six acres, it is stated, and will
have all modern improvements.
It is expected that they will cost
in the neighborhood of half a million dollars.
They will immediately adjoin the great coal
wharves of the Reading, which they may in
time equal in importance, as far as trade is
concerned, for the connection of the Read-
ing with the Lehigh Valley will provide an
excellent feeder for a trade, and the river
furnishes a magnificent opportunity for the
export trade. At this point the river is deep
enough to float the largest steamships, and
the channel is now being further improved
by the government.
The work on the Reading terminal is now
going on very rapidly. It is expected that it
wilt be in active operation in a few months..
A charter has been granted to the PPhita-
delphia, Cheltenham and Jenkentown Rail-
way, which is to be a trolley electric road,
and is to connect the lines of the traction
company with these two important suburbs.
CONTINUED HOT WEATHER.
The weather today was, if anything, even
more oppressive than yesterday, the ther
mometer reaching 94 on the street and the
general humidity being very high. Scarcely
any wind was stirring, and the little breeze
that did exist seemed to have little, if any,
cooling effect. Numerous cases of sunstroko
are again reported at the hospitals and sev-
eral manufactories were compelled to shut
down.

THE CITY'S WEALTH.
Assistant Chief Clerk Loughlin, of the
board ot revision of taxes, has furnished the
controller with the revised assessment of the
value of taxable property in this cits. The
estimate shows a gain of $17,055,610 over last
year. A comparison in detail is given as fol.
lows:
1892.
1893.
Real estate, "city"
rate
Real estate, "subur-
bau" ratu..
Real estate, "farm
rate...
Personal property
Horses and cattie,
(estimate based upon
the assessment of
the year 1891).....
Total.
SUT2,335,561 $686,205,859
41,407,611 42,352,254
18.557.690 20,710,335
$732,300,802 $749,355,447
3,305,8SO 3,404,935
ST35,696,772 5752,763,381
IRON HALL.
John Herns, acting for Attorney-General
Hensel, has procured a copy of the proceed-
ings begun by Bank Superintendent Krumb-
baar against the Mutual Surety, Trust and
Sufe Deposit Company, the depositary of the
Iron Hall. It is expected that the proceed-
ings will at once be commenced in tho
Dauphin county courts..

SUGAR IN FLORIDA.
Mr. Hamilton Disston, of Philadelphia,
and other capitalists bought up in Florida
Vast tructs of swamps and overflowed lands
and decided that they would attempt the
cultivation of sugar cane. Altogether they
acquired about 6,000,000 acres, or 9,375 squaro
miles, paying the State 25 cents an acre.
"We would never have dared to venture
on this enterprise had it not been for the
sugar bounty clause in the McKinley bill,"
said Mr. Disston. "This year we will make
6,000,000 pounds of sugar and draw a bounty
of 51:20,000. Next year we will increase this
output, and in a few years Florida will be a
rival of Louisiana in the production of cano
sugar."

PHILADELPILIA ASSESSMENT.
According to a report presented to tho
board of revision of taxes, the real and per-
sonal property in the city assessed and sub-
ject to tax for city purposes for 1893
amounts to 3752,765,382, an increase over 1892
of $17,085,610.

THE ARCHITECTS AND THE BOURSE.
The directors of the Philadelphia Bourso
were in session today for the purpose, it was
understood, of hearing a report from the real
estate committee on the choice of plans for
the structure, upon which operations are to
begin in the fall. At the conclusion of tho
meeting it was announced that the real es-
tate committee had not reported the selection
of any plans.
It is a curious fact in connection with the
action taken by the organization of archi
tects in this city in unitedly and publicly
placing themselves in opposition to the terme
upon which the bourse proposes to award
the contract for the new building that a
number of them ave, through the medium
of office boys aud draughtsmen, made bids
for the contract.
In the circular published by the Philadel-
phia Chapter of Architects announcing that
the members constituting that body had de-
clined to a man to have anything to do with
the competition for plans for the bourse
there were in the neighborhood of seventy-
five names appended.
There were in the list of signatures the
names of four men who have been dead for
a period dating beyond the first idea of any-
thing in connection with the bourse.
Since putting this circular out the chapter
of architects has been watching its inembers,
and a committee bas made a canvass of dif-
ferent offices to ascertain whether anybody
was making plans. The result of this inves-
tigation, it is said, revealed to their knowl-
edge that four plans had been submitted.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.