Trial of a Boy for Murder,
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.l
UPPER MARLBORO', ND., April 19.-The
trial of Denms Brightman, a colored boy, an
lumate of the House of Reformation, at
Cheltenham, Prince George's county, for the
murder of Scatt Robinson, February 25, en-
gared the attention of the court today.
Messrs. C. C. Magruder and Jos. S. Wilsou
detended the boy, and State's Attorney
Brandt represented the State. Only four
witnesses were heard, all inmates of the
samo institution, and the facts brought for-
ward are as follows: Early on the morning of
the pomicide Brightman accused Robinson
of stealing some money from under his
pillow. Robinson denied any knowledge of
tho money, and threats were made by the
accused. At night in the basement of the
institution Brightman again accostod Rob-
Inson and told him he meant to cut his heart
out. Some of the mimates heto came be-
tween the boys, and to all appearances the
quarrel was over. Immediately the accused
rushed on his adversary with a drawn kuito
and said: “You don't think I'll do it, don't
you?" and plunged the knife into the right
side of the lad's neck, severing the earotid
artery, and atter ruuuung some IWO
hundred yards the boy Kobluson fell dend.
Brightman then wiped off the blood and,
running out doors, stuck the keite rate the
ground to the hit, whore it was found by
the officers of the institution. General Horn,
superintendent, swore as to the previous
good character of the boy. Brightman hails
from Baltimore, and was sent to the institu-
tion from the central police station. floup-
pears to be about urteen years old, and in no
wisu mamtests any concern as to the serious
charge against him. The knife used is the
saine as that with which the boy worked
during the day when employed in making
mattresses, and which he neglected to turn
over to the oficer when the day's work was
inished. The jury returned a verdict of
anurder in the second degreo.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.