One of Cheltenham Boys Dead.
Courtes sunsoury med at the Maryland Unt-
versity Hospital at 8 o'clock sesterday mora-
Ing. He is one of the two colored boys from
the House of Reforination, at Cheltenham,
Prince George's county, whose feet were
amputated at the hospital February 10, De-
cause of gangrene resulting from frost-
bites. The other boy, John Hall, is
mearly well, and Dr. Spuill, the resident
physician, says that Hall will fully recover
Dis general health. The doctor adds that
Salisbury's death was immediately due to
blood-poisoning and that he was suffering
from it when received at the hospital. After
the amputations Salisbury did not talk, but
Hail said he worked in the laundry of the
melormatory: that in playing pranks
one night he lost a shoo and went to
work the next day with one shoe on,
not taking time to look for the other,
dearing punishment for lateness. He
said be suffered pain in his bare foot and he
was pumshed for losing his shoe by being
put into a black cell for a week and two
days. He added that he was afterward
treated for frostbite at the institution and
then sent to the hospital, as ho wanted his
feet cut off. Gen. John W. Horn, superin-
tendent of the reformatory, and the mana-
gers stated that the two boys were weak-
mirded and that shoes could not be kept on
them that they ran wilfully into the snow
in their bare feet, and that all necessary
clothing was supplied the inmates of the re-
formatory. Dr. Spuill has telegraphed to
Cheltenham the news of Salisbury's death,
and will notify the city authorities today.
Now Music Hall.
The subscription committee of the Audito-
rium Company which will build a music
Dhall in Baltimore, received reports at its
meeting yesterday of new and increased sub-
scriptions amounting to $20,400. This leaves
$63,800 still to be raised and makes the whole
stock now taken $183,200. The directors have
determined to make an effort to raise tho
Valauce at once so that work on the building
may begin April 1. They have obligated
themselves not to place any incumbrance on
the building. If work can begin at tho de-
sired time the building will be ready for use
by December 1, but it is believed that any
delay will cause the loss of the whole of next
winter.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.