MARYLAND REFORMATORIES.
Reports of What Has Been Dono-
Otticers and Managers,
The twenty-seventh annual report of the
Female House of Refuge, Carey and Baker
streets, shows the past year to have been a
successful one in the history of the Institu-
tion. Since the home was established, in 1866,
583 girls nave been under its care. The in-
mates are taught the ordinary English
branches, housework, sewing, dressmaking
and singing, and they receivo moral and
religious training. The average number of
inmates is about seventy. At present thoro
are sixty-seven. The ladies' board of man-
agers co-operates with the teachers in their
work. The treasurer's report shows that the
receipts of the institution for the past your
amounted to $10,071 58 and the expenditures
to $13,980 32, leaving a balance $2,001 26. Tho
officers of the home are: Hiram Woods.
president: Rev. Dr. Franklin Wilson, vice-
president: Thomas W. Brundige, secretary.
and John Curlett, treasurer. William K.
Bibb is superintendent and Mrs. William K.
Bibb matron of the institution.
The annual meeting of members and sub-
scribers of the House of Reformation for
Colored Boys, at Cheltenham, Princo
George's county, sld., was held tu Baltimore
yesterday. Mr. Enoch Pratt presided. Mr.
Pratt was re-elected president, William R.
Lincoln vice-president, Edward Stabler, Jr..
secretary, and Charles Markell treasurer.
The present board of managers on the part
of the subscribers was also re-olected, as fol-
lows: G. S. Griffith, Edward Stabler, Jr., Wil-
liam R. Lincoln, Enoch Pratt, B. Frank De-
ford, Charles Markoli, T. Erskine Carson, J.
Harry Lee, Nathan Diehl, C. C. Magruder,
Frank Woods and Honry C. Roed. The re-
port of the board of managers stated that
the total number of boys received into the
house since its opening. January 1, 1873, was
1,715. The number remaining, November 30,
1893, was 272. The treasurer's statomont
showed receipts amounting to $20,058 01 and
expenses of $23,480 08, leaving a balance ou
hand of $6,171 93,
The subscribers of the Colored House of
Refuge met yesterday and olected thesemana
gers: G. Morris Bond, Joshua Levering.
John R. Kelso, Jr.. Thomas S. Baor, Josoph
Merreleld, M.Laupholmer, Alexander Brown,
Wm. B. Graves, Charles Markell and James
Carey, Jr. Mr. James B. Ramsay deolined to,
serve longer as manager....
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.