A. Baltimorean Drowned in Texas,--
Information was received in Baltimore yes-
terday that Mr. T. Herbert Parlett was
drowned June 11 while crossing the Canadian
river, in Texas. Mr. Parlett was a son of the
late Thomas E. Parlett, who was for many
years an auctioneer in this city. About four
years ago Mr. T. Herbert Parlott went to
Texas, and bad since been manuging a cattle
ranch in that State. On the da day of the acci.
dent he had forded the Canadian river and
gone some distance into the country on busi-
ness. Returning he found the stream swollen
with a strong current running. Neverthe-
less he forced his horse into the water and
into the current. The animal's strength was
not sufficient to breast the rush of water, and
both the horse and rider were carried down
the stream and drowned, Mr. Parlett was
not married. His remains will be brought to
Baltimore for burial.
Bequests to Clergymen Made by Miss
Emma Jones, -The will of Miss Emma Jones,
who died in Washington, D. C., June 18, was
Aled for probate in the Baltimore Orphans
Court yesterday. Ground rents aggregating
$282 are bequeathed by the testatrix for the
support of the rector of St. John's Protestant
Episcopal Church at Beltsville, Md., and the
Income from the money she has on deposit i
the Contral Savings Bank is to be used to
keep in repair her family lot in the cemetery
of that church. Rev. Peregrino Wroth, rector
of the Church of the Messiah, Baltimore, and
Rev. A. J. Smith, assistant rector of the
Church of the Ascension, Washington, are
each left $500. E. Allen Jones and Stanley
M. Jones, nephews of the testatrix, are left
$3,000 each and Miss Jones's personal effects
with the exception of ber wardrobe. They
are also the residuary legatecs.
The Late William Mackessy. The body
of Mr. William Mackessy, who died on Sat
urday of Bright's disease, was removed res
terday from bia home, 919 Binney street,
Canton, to St. Bridget's Catholic Church.
where requiem mass was said by Rev. Wil-
liam L. Jordan. Burial was made at Holy
Cross Cemetery. The pall-bearers were
Thomas McAvor, Henry Hubbard, Michati
Cohen, William O'Nelli, Nicholas Malone and
Martin Dosie. Mr. Mackessy was born in
county Limerick, Ireland, and came to this
country about forty years ago. He was a
roller in the Abbott Iron Works for thirty
years. He leaves a wife, ive sons and two
unmarried daughters. The sons are William,
Jeremiah and Joseph Mackessy, who are all
in business in Washington: Michael and
John, the last mentioned being an engineer
in the employ of THE SDN.
Mra, Ayers'a Application for Dirorce.-
Barbara Ayers applied yesterday in Circuit
Court No. 2, by Thomas Ireland Elliott and
George E. Loweree, attornuss. for an abso-
lute divorce from John P. Ayors, expert ac-
countant, and for alimony and counsel fee.
The bill states that they were married in
London, England, November 21, 1867, coming
to the United States four years later, and
that they have two grown daughters, one of
whom is married, the other being a confirmed
Invaild. An order was signed by Judge
Dennis requiring Mr. Asers to show cause
by July 10 why he should not pay his wife
825 counsel fee and $5 a week allmons.
Andrews-Warner,-Mr. John W. An-
drews, teller in the Old Town Bank, and Miss
Anne Warner were married in the English
Lutheran Church of the Reformation, Caro-
lize and Lanvale streets, yesterday morning
at 8.80 o'clock. The ceremony was performed
by the pastor, Rev. D. Frank Garland. The
witnesses were the families of the bride and
groom. The bride wore a light brown cloth
dress and carried a bunch of white carna-
tions. Mr. and Mrs. Audrews left on a tour
to New York State, up the Hudson river.
Niagara Falls and Watkins Glen. The bride
is a daughter of Mr. George Warner, 1015
East North avenue.
Col, Schley Takes Charge of His Office.-
Col. Buchanan Schley assumed control of the
surveyor's office at the custom-house yester-
day. He had previously qualified and filed
his bond for $5,000 with the Treasury Do
partment. Colouel Schley was in his office at
the opening of business in the morning and
went over the routine of the duties with
Deputy Surveyor Bowie. Colonel Schley was
called upon be the other federal officials in
the custom-house and congratulated.
The Funeral of Mr. Bentley C. Bibb
took place vesterday from his home, 13
Linden avenue. The services were con-
ducted by Rev. Dr. Lucien Clark, of Madison
Avenue Methodist Episcopal Church, assisted
Dy Rev. Samuel A. Wilson. The pall-bearers
were Messrs. William H. Perkins,Bosley
Littig, J. K. Bridge, C. T. Sanford, E. L. Bug-
hee and Charles W. Shelton. The last four
were relatives of Mr. Bibb from Washington,
Burial was made at Mount Olivet Cemetery.
Mr. Henry Hoeck, Sr., aged seventy-
seven years, died yesterday from the infirm-
ities of age at his home, 1023 North Central
avenue. He was bora is Germany and came
to this country in 1843. In 1849 be began bust-
ness as an undertaker iu Baltimore and con-
tinued it until seven years ago, when he re-
tired, the business being afterward con-
ducted by his son. Mr. John H. Hoeck. A
widow and four children survive him.
Overcome by the Heat-Charles Altwater
was overcome by the beat yesterday while
working in the stone-yard at 1119 East Monu-
ment street. He was removed to his home,
612 Aisquith street.
John Wallace, colored, of 828 Druid Hill
avenue, was overcome on Howard street,
near Franklin street, while on his way to the
City Ho-pital dispensary to have his broken
lex dressed. He was sent to the hospital.
Scarcity of Huy in England. Mr. A.
Greenfied, of North Laiths Eaking, Eng-
land, writing to Dr. Robert Ward, of Balti
more, says: "Owing to the scarcity of bay
were it has been bringing £8 a ton, wheat
straw and oat straw 24 a ton, oats 21 shillings
for 24 stone and barley 32 shittings for 32
stane." A stono is generally calculated at 14
pounds.
The Nickel-in-the-Slot Machine.-Michael
Ganzhorn was released on ball for court yes-
terday by Justice Murray, charged with
keeping a quating table at 9 South Liberty
street. The so-called gaming table, it was
stated, consists of a nickel-in-the-slot ma-
chine, and the arrest of Mr. Ganzhorn is the
ürst made to Baltimore for using such a
maobine.
Dr. George H. Rohe, who has been trav-
ellug ta Europe the past two months, re-
turned to Baltimore yesterday. He called
on Health Commissioner Moshane, at the
City Hull, and presented to the commis-
sloger two ivy leaves which he plucked from
the walls of Muckeross Abbey, in Ireland.
July Weather.-Records of July weather
in Baltimore, as kept at the weather bureau
for the last twenty-three years, are as fol-
lows: Mean temperature 799: warmes: Juir,
that of 1887, with an average of 82°; coolest,
that of 1881, with an average of 720: average
precipitation 4,89 inches.
Mr. Louis A. Gegan died suddenly of
Bright's disease yesterday at the home of his
sister, Miss Louisa Gegan. 2 West Twentieth
street. Mr. Gegan was a son of the late
Joseph Gegan, of Baltimore. He was em-
ployed fifteen years by Strouse Bros. as
bookkeeper. For a long time he was a mem-
ber of the Cathedral choir.
Said to Be an Impostor. Mrs. F. A.
Timanus, of Hampden, writes to THE SUN,
requesting that charitable persons be
warned against a woman claiming to be
president of the Ladies' Aid Society of
Mount Vernon Methodist Episcopal Church,
Mrs. Timanus is president of the Ladies'
Aid Society of the church named.
One Boy Accused of Cutting Another.-
Charles Tull, colored, thirteen years old. was
committed for court yesterday by Justice
Anderson, charged with cutting Harry Smith,
colored, of 337 Hose street, who is also thir-
teen years old. The two boys had a quarrel
aud smith was stabbed in the shoulder. Tulil
was arrested by Patrolman Carr.
Condemnation Jury's Award Sustained,
The exceptions of Henry E. Baltzell and
others to the laquisition of the condemns-
tion jury awarding them $600 for damage to
their property, corner of Dolphin street and
Mount Royal avenue, by the construction of
the Belt tunnel, were overruled yesterday
by Judge Ritchie.
Verdi's Opera, "Un Balloin Maschera,"
was repeated last night at Ford's Opera
House by the Hinrichs Grand Opera Com-
pany. It was given by a strong cast, the
parts being taken by Mme. Kronold, Guille,
Del Puente, Mme. Humphreys, Miss Flem-
ing, Viviani and Knight. Tomght "La Gio-
conda" will be given for the first time.
Mr. Wm. G. Reinhardt died yesterday at
bis bome, 12 North Gay street of consump-
tion. He was twenty-four years old and was
a son of Mr. Wm. H. Reinbardt and a nephew
of Police Sergeant Reinhardt, of the central
district. He was employed as bookkeeper
His Leg Broken, William Young, col-
ored, aged fourteen years, was brought to
Baltimore last night from Snow Hill, Md..
with his right leg broken. He was employed
in a pox factory and had his leg broken by
being caught in a belt. The boy was taken
to the Maryland General Hospital.
Mrs. Cochran and the Indian Girl
The attachment suit against Mrs. Virginia
Cochran, who was arrested in Baltimore last
Friday for not producing before the Circult
Court of St. Mary's County, Md., an Indian
giri for whom a writ of habeas corpus had
been sworn out, was heard Monday by Judge
Crane at Leonardtown. Mrs. Cochran was
represented by Henry J. Broening, of Balti
more, and the petitioners by Robert C.
Coombs and Joseph F. Morgan, of the St.
Mary's bar. The court heard only the at
tachment case, and dismissed it upon the
payment of costa. The habeas corpus anse
will be heard July 23. The writ was sworn
out by Isabella Wortb, mother of the girl,
Rev Father Nicolage and Sister Ann
Paquet, of Victoria, B. C., where the girl was
obtained by Mrs. Cochran from an orphan-
age. It is alleged that Mrs. Cochran has not
compiled with the terms of the agreement
under which she was allowed to have the
girl.
Before the Police Justices Yesterday.-
Joseph Opperman, charged with obtaining
85 and a watch by false representations from
Walter C. Crockett, was committed for court
by Justice Hamilton.
Amos Cole, colored, whose age is about
thirteen years, was committed by Justice
Anderson to the Colored House of Reforma-
tion at Cheltenham, on the charge of being a
vagabond and destitute minor.
Walter Franklin, colored, was committed
for court by Justice Anderson, charged with
picking the pocket of Mollie Gibson, colored,
of 713 Dolphin street. The woman was stand-
ing at the time ou Preston street, near Penn-
sylvania avenue, talking to another colored
woman. Franklin was arrested by Patrol-
man S. R. Millor.
James Jones, colored, was released for
court by Justice Murray, charged with bar.
Ing policy papers at his house, 810 Davis
street.
Personal.-Prof. Milton Whitney, of Balti.
more, has been given an bonorary bonor Ph. D. de-
gree by Augustana College, Ill., for bis
original investigations into the nature and
formation of soils.
Mr. Chas. W. Barker, who for several
years has been associsted with Harris, Brit-
ton & Dean as treasurer, since the incorpora-
tion of the Drm into a company has resigned
his position and will go into mercantile busi-
nees on his own account in September.
Mesars. Richard M. Duvall and J. S. Rawi-
ings will sail for Europe next Saturday on
the steamer Mobila. They will be absent until
September.
Postmaster Warfield went to New York
yesterday to visit Postmaster Dayton of that
city, and to examine lato the workings of
by the Bartholomay Brewing Company. A
widow aud one child survive him.
An Accident to the Mayor's Buggy.-
Mayor Latrobe's burgy was run into by a
baker's wagon yesterday morning, at the
corner of Mount Royal avenue and Dolphin
street, while the Mayor was examining the
Belt Line tunnel. The axle of the carriage
Fourteenth Ward Democrats.--The Four-
teenth Ward Democratic Pleasure Associa-
tion was organized at the hall corner of
Lombard street and Arlington avenue, with
John Joyce as president.
Mr. Halbert Hoffman, who died at Lans-
downe sunday. was buried yesterday.
County Commissioner Weis was present at
the funeral. Mr. Hoffman was road super-
visor of the thirteenth district of Baltimore
county.
Proposals for Removal of Garbage
Proposals were opened at the City Hall ses
terday for the removal of garbage from the
dumps. The contract was not awarded.
Gasoline Explosion.-An explosion of
zasoline yesterday at 1020 East Chase street,
occupled by Otto Muttz, caused ō damage,
The City Council will meet in special ses
sion this afternoon at 5 o'clock.
was bent, and the Mayor had to get down to
his office in another rig.
Condemning Milk. The milk inspectors
yesterday tested the milk in fourteen deliv-
ery wagons and condemned the contents of
tive wagons. They also inspected the milk
in two stores and two dairies and condemned
that in one dairy.
An Injunction Refused-The injunction
asked by Mr. Walter De C. Poultney to re-
strain Mr. Charles F. W. Depkin from using
as a party wall the wall of a warehouse be
longlus to Mr. Poultney was refused by
Judge Dennis in an opinion filed in the Cir-
cuit Court yesterday.
Supreme Bonch-The Supreme Bench
will bold a zeneral term in the Court of
Common Pleas at noon tomorrow for the
purpose of hearing pending motions for new
trials and in arrest of judgment in criminal
cases and for transacting other business