REFORMING COLORED BOYS.
What Is Being Done at Cheltenham-
New Building Asked.
The annual report of the House of Reforma-
tion for Colored Boys, at Cheltenham, Prince
George's counts. Md., bus been issued. The
Inmates of the home numbered 272 November
3, 1891 The receipts during the year, includ-
Ing a balance of $7.823 85 on hand November
31, 1892. were $29.658 01 and the general ex-
renses were $23,18605, leaving a balance of
36,171 16 on hand November 30, 180.
The report says: "The increase of inmates
steadily continues so far beyond our room
that we are unable to properly train and disei-
piine them, and it is absolutely necessary to
bave another family buliding, as set forth
by the superintendent. The cost should be
- divided equally between the State and the
city, and only eight thousand dollars from
each will pay for it."
Superintendent John W. Horn, in his re-
port, says: "At the last session of the Leg-
islature the law governtag commitments so
this institution was amended, so that boys
could be sent here for a specified term. For
merls they were under the control of the
manugers during their minority. This
amendwent has not been productive of pond,
either to the matitution or those in whna
supposed tuterest it was made. All boyя
sent to a retoruntory should have undeter-
minste sentences."
Mr. Enoen Pratt is president of the House
of Reformation, and Mr. Edward Stabler, Jr.,
is the secretary.
BASE-BALL GOSSIP.
Manager Barnie Will Retain Kilroy-
A Letter from Jennings.
Manager Baroie. of the Louisville Club, yog.
terday passed through Haltimore on his way
from New York to Louisville. Mr. Haruus
considers the outlook for huse-bail in 1894
- very encouraging. He says he has otten
- ingether a good team, but he is not over-san-
guine of Naishing in the first division of the
League, He will retain Kilroy and thinks
the old Oriole pitcher will be in great form
this year,
A special dispatch to THE SES from Boston
says: "Catcher Jack Ryan, who played with
Springfield last year and formerly with
Louisville, resterday made terms with the
Hoston Club and was released by Manager
Hurns, of Springfield. Ryan's contract with
Springleld stipulated that he was to be re-
serred onis against other Eastern league
clubs. Manager Nanning says that Can-
nanghton, Boston's other new catcher, is a
good nne. McCarthy, of the Bostons, writes
that members of the Boston Club bave been
vaying their own expenses in California.for
the past month. Buffy has lett the club and
joined his wife at Los Angeles."
Manager Hanion yesterday received a let-
ter from Jennings. The short stop has been
emptosed in a store at Moosie, l'a, all the
winter and is ready to sigu his contract for
next season.
Mr. Haulon may give a trial to Third-Base-
man Shea, who hatted hard in the Eastern
League last season.
A dispatch states that the Cleveland Club
will not be transferred from that city.
Dr. Henry Hyvernat.
Dr. Henry Hyvernut last night delivered an
Illustrated lecture on "Auctent Armenia" iמ
the halt of Peabody institute. Dr. Hyverunt
is a native of Lyons, France, where he began
bis education, Ile spent five years in
Paris studying for the priesthood in the
Catholic Church and was afterward a profes-
sor in the Propazania, Rome. His rescurabes
in biblical archæology led to his selection
by the French covernment to continue his
searching to Armenis. During the years
1888 and 1859 Dr. Hyvernat traveled in Ar-
menia and unearthed many ruins and imple-
ments of the ancient people of that race.
the latter part of 1889 he came to the United
Siates and accepted the ebair of biblical ar-
cheology and oriental languages in the
Catholic University of America. at Washing-
ton. This position be now ills.
The Local-Option BRI.
1
A temperance mass-meeting was held last
night at Eutaw Street Methodist Episcopal
Church. Addresses were made by Rev. Dr.
Heory Branch and Rev. Dr. Julius E. Gram-
mer in advocacy of the local-option bill to be
presented to the Legislature, which has been
prepared under the auspices of the Maryland
State Temperance Alliance. At the conclu-
ston of the addresses a petition for the pas
sage of the bill was circulated among those
present and a aumber of sluuntures were ob-
tained. Rev. R. H. Williams presided, and
Rev. W. G. Herbert was secretary of the
meeting.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.