A PRISON FOR YOUTHS.
Petitions for Its Erection to Be
Sent to the Council.
CORDIAL APPROVAL OF THE PLAN.
Dr. John Morris, Judge Harlan and
Wardens Weyler and Constantine Rec-
ommend the Separation of Young Of-
fenders from Older Criminals,
The committce appointed Tuesday night
by the Prisoners' Aid Association to secure
the separation of young and old prisoners in
the city jail bas gone actively to work.
"We are going before the next meeting of
the City Council with petitions," yesterday
said Dr. John Morris, who was the author
of the motion which led to the appoint-
iment of the committee. "Our idea," he
continued, "is to secure a separate place
of confinement for boys under sixteen years
old who are in jail awaiting action on their
cases by the Criminal Court or the grand
Jury. There are rarely more than eight or
ten of them in jail at one time, and the cost
of a corrugated iron annex to the prison,
th about a dozen cells in it, would not be
over $1,000.
"This trouble has existed for years in Mary-
Jand. Crowded six or eight in a cell, old of-
fenders with young offenders, there is a
great opportunity for debauching the moral
feelings of these boys. When they leave
prison they come out corrupted and bar-
dened, almost sure to return to vicious ways
and become confirmed criminals. Some of
the youths in the city jail have been sent
there three or four times or oftener.
"If magistrates would use the power vested
in them, they would in many cases commit
these youths to the House of Refuge, to St.
Mary's Industrial School, or to the Colored
House of Reformation at Cheltenham, thus
Saving a large amount of trouble and ex.
pense to the city and obviating some of the
evils complained of.
"It is not my judgment that the right sort
of a place could be found in the jail building
at present for the isolation of these youths.
That is why we want a cheap annex con-
structed.
"A reformatory for 'first offenders' is not
what we are now contemplating, though
such an institution as the Elmira Reforma-
tory would be in every way desirable. But
it is in vain to hope for its establishment in
Maryland at this time on account of the great
necessary expense.
"The power given to judges of criminal
cases by the last Legislature, allowing them
to give first offenders a probationary period
by a suspension of their sentences, has so far
worked well and will no doubt prove a great
blessing."
Said Chief Judge Harlan: "The separa-
tion of young and old prisoners is a reform
of which I cordialty approve. That children
accused or convicted of crime, often mere
acts of mischief, should be associated in con-
finement with hardened criminals is most
demoralizing. Cases frequently come before
our magistrates and the judge of the Crimi-
nal Court where, for the sake of the public
example, it is necessary that some punish-
ments be inflicted. Even where there is a
discretion to fine or imprison, the
mposition of
fine does not ac-
complish the desired result. If the
line is sufliciently large to have any
deterent effect, it either cannot be paid at
ali or will fall on the parents, who are pun-
ished in place of the children, and yet the
alternative is to put the child in an environ-
ment that will likely make him a criminal. I
trust that the committee of the Prisoners'
Aid Association may be able to accomplish
the object they have in view, and I should
be glad to aid them in any way in my
power."
a
Warden Constantine, of the city jail, said
in his last annual report: "We are continu-
nily receiving children as prisoners for tri-
fling offenses, and children committed to the
House of Reformation are also sent here
when first committed, to be held until such
time as the authorities are prepared to re-
ceive them at Cheltenham. It is safe to say
that when the boy comunitted for court and
the one committed for the House of Refor-
imation have had their cases disposed of they
have learned considerable more vice than
they knew when first committed. There is
no remedy for it in this prison. It is impos-
sible to entirely separate the children from
the older prisoners. A place where all youth-
ful first offenders could be sent, and no
others, would be a great addition to the
already great reformatories of the State."
Warden Weyier, of the State penitentiary,
says he believes thoroughly in a State re-
formatory for first offenders between the
ages of sixteen and thirty, such as the insti-
tutions at Elmira, N. Y, at Huntington, l'a,
and Pontine. III. "The young fellows sent
to the penitentiary from the counties regard
the older and most hardened criminals as
reai heroes," said Mr. Weyler. "The amount
of danger which a brains, active criminal
can do to younger associates is very great."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.