KILLED BY A BRICK.
Death of a Colored Youth at the Chel-
tenham Reformatory.
(Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.1
UPPER MARLBORO', MD., Sept. 5.-Last
night Robert Matthews, one of the colored
boss from the House of Reformation, at
Cheltenham, was brought to Marlboro' jail,
charged with causing the death of John T.
Dick, a fellow inmate of the institution. Dr.
O. B. Stone delivered the accused youth to
the sheriff. It was stated that Dick was
struck on the head with a brick August 3 and
died September 2. The brick was covered
with carpet and had been used to keep a
door open. It is said that Dick had been tak-
ing things belonging to Matthews, whien
angered him and he picked up the brick and
-threw it, knocking Dick down. The brick
struck bim in the forehead and the fall in-
jured the back of his head also. The injured
boy seemed to be getting well until ten
days ago, when a change for the worse took
place and he died Monday last. Drs. Duvall
and Stone, who made a post-mortem exam-
ination, said that the wound from either the
brick or the fall was sufficient to cause the
death.
Crabbing and Oystering.
[Special Dispatch to the Battumore Sun.]
CRISFIELD, MD., Sept. 5.-David Hoffman
was captured by the Virzinia State fishery
force yesterday. He was taken to Tangier
Island and arraigned before Justice Lewis
Cooper, but was released. Hesaid he had no
intention of violating the law. Some time
aro Capt. George Murphy. of the Tangier,
had stakes set on the boundary, about one
mile on the Virginia side. Crabbers from
Smith's Island repeatedly pulled up these
stakes, so Captain Murphy concluded not to
put them down any more. Hotiman was
crabbing near the place where these stakes
stood. Notice has been given to Marylanders
not to go over the line. Hotfman was in-
formed that if he had been froin Smith's
Island, it would have gone hard with him.
Considerable teeling exists between the citi-
zens of Tangier and Smith's Islands growing
out of disputes in regard to the boundary.
Hottman was crubbing at the time of his
Capture and made no effort to escape.
The tongers of Virginia are at work in
Tangier sound. About 400 boats were work-
ing there today. The oysters are bringing
35 cents per bushel.
The public schools of Somerset county will
reopen September 16. Miss Della Cullen will
have charge of the school near Cullen's Store
and Miss Retta Townsend has been trans-
ferred to Jacksonville. The other teachers
of Crisfield have been reappointed.
The following persons have erected houses
in Cristield during the summer: Lizzie Moore,
A. B. Cochrane, Isaac Lawson, Clarence
Lankford uud Joseph Disharoon. L. T.
Stering has cominenced to build. Besides
these a new schoolhouse has been erected
and work resumed with a large force of men
on the Methodist Protestant church.
Howard County Taxes.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.l
ELLICOTT CITY, Sept. 5.-The first install-
ment of taxes on the levy of 1895 was paid
over to the county commissioners by the tax
collectors, today. The payments were: N.
A. Pfeiffer, $10,969 02: John T. Ridgely, $10.-
503 11; Thomas Batson, $10,943 44. The
amounts in one or two districts are consider-
ably less than bave been heretofore paid in
by this time of the year.
The grand jury is still investigating the
lynching of Jacob Henson, colored, the con-
demned murderer of Daniel F. Shen.
Dr. Wm. H. Hardes, an aged physician.
residing near Clarksville, Howard county,
is reported critically ill. Dr. and Mrs. Har-
dey not long ago celebrated their goldeu
wedding.
The classes for the present scholastic year
at Rock Hill College have been resumed.
There is a notable increase in the roll of
students over that of last year. Brother
Maurice, president of the college, who bas
Deen suffering from an injury to one of his
legs, is now sufficiently recovered to resume
motive duties.
Tri-State Medical Society.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.l
CUMBERLAND, MD., Sept. 5.-The Tri-State
Medteal Society held its semi-annual meeting
in Cumberland this evening. The transac-
tions consisted mainly in reading and dis-
cussing medical and surgical papers. Prof.
J. B. Murdock, ot Pittsburg, Pa., delivered a
Lecture and Dr. L. Randolph, of Baltimore,
read a paper. The following officers were
elected: President, Dr. S.C. Hoffman, Keyser.
W. Va.: vice-presidents, Drs. I. H. Gulp,
Bedford, Pa., J. W. Johnson, Davis, W. Va.,
and J. M. Spear, Cumberland; recording sec-
retary, Dr. P. Latutz, Alaska. W. Va.; cor-
responding secretary, Dr. F. W. Fochtman,
Cumberland; treasurer. Dr. H. M. Hodgson,
Cumberland.
The Frederick District Convention of the
Epworth League Christian Endeavors ad-
journed tonight after an interesting session.
Lee M. Bender, of Martinsburg, W. Va.. was
re-elected president, and A. D. Darby, of
Martinsburg, was elected secretary.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.