A BOY'S GRATITUDE,
As Expressed to General Horn, of the
Colored House of Reformation,
Mr. Enoch Pratt has received from Gen.
John W. Horn, superintendent of the Col-
ored House of Reformation at Cheltenham,
a letter which was received by General Horn
from Frank C. Brown, a former inmate of
the school, asking for some photographs and
information about the school, to be used in
an article which he said he was preparing for
one of the Chicago newspapers. In his letter
Brown said:
"I have traveled much since leaving the
school, having been to Europe, South Amer-
ica and Mexico and all over the United
States, always traveling alone and on my
earnings, and have lectured, taught school
and run stores and restaurants. I cannot be
too grateful for the kind providence that
made it possible for me to enjoy the benetits
of such a school. I was a waif, having run
away from Staunton, Va, a year before I
was sent there.
"Every State should have a school of the
kind. They owe it to unfortunate humanity
as well as to the progress of civilization."
A New Cable Train.
One of the new grip cars designed for use
on the Calvert and Charles street Blue line
of the City Passenger Company, was put in
use yesterday on the White line, running on
Baltimore street and Madison avenue. The
train of cars, composed of closed grip and
open smoker, created a little sensation ac
first as it looked like one of the ordinars
trains running backward.
The usual order of cable trains is reversed,
the closed grip car being in front and the
open car a trailer. The new grip consists of
a wheel device at the end of the grip car in-
stead of levers in the middle of the car as
have been used by this company.
The wheels are horizontal, like the brake
wheels on a railroad coach, one controlling
the grip mechanism to grasp the cable and
- the other operating the ear brake.
The Council of Jewish Women,
"Jewish Physicians and the Contributions
of Jews to the Selence of Medicine" was the
subject of a paper read last night before the
Baltimore Council of Jewish Women by Dr.
Aaron Friedenwald. The meeting was held
at the Madison Avenue Temple, with Miss
Rose Sommerfeld presiding.
Dr. Jacob Hollander read a paper on "Ben-
jamin D'Israeli, Statesman and Poet." fie
interested the large audience present with a
carefully written and weil read biography of
the English statesman and author, to whom
he gave the credit of making England the
"one country where Jews may live without
reproach."
Personal.
Mrs. Royal Phelps Carroll, whose husband
is a son of ex-Governor John Lee Carroll, of
Maryland, came to Baltimore recently and
made her profession of the Catholic faith
hetore Cardinal Gibbons. She was formerly
Miss Marion Langd .
Mr. E. K. Pattison, mentioned as one of
the incorporators of the United States Fidei-
ity and Guarantee Company, is a member of
the firm of R. M. Sutton & Co.
Rev. William Rosenau, rabbi of Oheb
Shalom Temple, delivered a lecture entitled
"The Sons of the Covenant" last night at
Hazazer's Hall before D'Israeli Lodge, Order
of B'nai Brith.