DEATH OF ENOCH PRATT
He Passed Away Peacefully
Last Night at Tivoli, His
Country Residence.
SICK OVER TWO MONTHS.
One of Maryland's Widest Known
and Most Prominent Men.
Merchant, Banker and Founder of Bal-
timore's Public Libraries-An Inter-
esting Sketch of His Career of In-
dustry and Thrift-Personal Charac-
teristics which Give a Clear Concep-
tion of the Man and His Methods,
Mr. Enoch Pratt, founder of the great pub-
lie library which bears his name, died a
fow minutes before 9 o'clock last night at
his country home, "Tivoli," on Woodbourne
ave.. near Govanstown, in the eighty-ninth
year of his age.
His last birthday occurred
September 10. Mr. Pratt had been sick over
two months with kidney trouble.
His death removes one of the most inter-
esting of Baltimoreans. Active always, with
but few days of sickness until the last fatal
Illness came, Mr. Pratt was to be seen every
day on the business streets in the centre of
the city with a bit of sage advice for this
one who asked it and a cheery or brusque
remark for each of his thousands of friends.
He was the most democratic of men, car-
ing but little for the cut of the clothes worn
by himself or any other man, and much pre-
ferring to walk with a trusty cane alone on
foot than to ride in his carriage. And yet, in
spite of his years, he easily accomplished
much more in this easy-going way thau
many men of more nervous, hurried tem-
peraments.
Personal Characteristics,
His build was slight, and this was made
more noticeable in recent years by a de
cided stoop of his shoulders. To a young
man who helped him across South strect at
the corner of Baltimore, not long ago, Mr.
Pratt commented on his size by remarking
that "These rapid-transit fellows don't seem
to be able to see us little men."
His mouth expressed great determination,
but the most prominent characteristic of his
face was a pair of deep blue eyes that never
lost their keenness nor their lustre. When
their owner was giving utterance to some
witticism-and this was often these sharp
oyes twinkled merrily.
His Business Judgment,
As a business man Mr. Pratt was charao-
terized by sound judginent and by scrupu-
lous care. He always lived up to the lotter
of his obligations, and he was equally quick
to insist that those who dealt with him
should do the same. His common senso was
large, his application to business apparently
tireless and his habits unexceptionable.
One of his most marked characteristios
was the complete and thorough manner in
which he scrutinized and examined the
minutest details of every bit of busines
that came before him. He much preferred
to do this than to rely for success upon the
efforts of his subordinutes. He dominated
everything and knew everything, although
always considerate of those whom he em.
ployed.
In Early Life,
He started business in Baltimore sixty-five
years ago with a capital of $150. This was on
January 1, 1831, and Mr. Pratt was then
twenty-two years old, having been born at
North Middleborough. Plymouth couuty.
Mass., September 10, 1805. IIis little capital had
been accumulated as a clerk in Bostou,
where he had obtained a position when ho
graduated from an academy at Bridgewater
at the age of fifteen.
Two weeks before he closed his school
days he had written a letter to an intimato
friend of his family in Boston and asked him
to obtain for him as soon as possible a good
place in a wholesale dry goods house. "I
suspect I am old enough to do business," he
said in this letter. "The preceptor thinks I
am. My school will be out in a fortnight
and I do not want to stay at home long after
it is out."
"E. Pratt & Brother."
Mr. Pratt's business in Baltimore was at
first that of a commission hardware mer
chant and later a wholesalo dealer in Iron,
For some years he was in business by him-
self, but later he took his cousin, Martin
Ketth, into the firm. This partnership lasted
for about ten years, at the end of which
time Mr. Pratt took a younger brother into
business with him, the stylo of the firm being
E. Pratt & Brother. This brother was
named David Pratt. The firm name is still
to be read on the weather-beaten sigu over
the Coorway of the warehouse at 23 and 23
South Charles street. After the death of his
brother, his brother-in-law, the lato Henry
Janes, became associated with him. The busi-
ness is now carried on by a son of Mr. Janes,
Mr. Henry Pratt Janes.
As a Bank President,
Mr. Pratt became president of the Farm
ers and Planters' Bank in 1860. He had
been one of its directors for many years be-
fore that. This made him at the time of his
death the oldest bank official in Baltimore,
both in years and in point of servico. Ho
worked untiringly in its interest, and made
it one of the most stable of Baltimore's
Unancial institutions.
His fellow-bankers have on several occa-
Hons honored him as their donn. They inade
aim president of the Baltimoro Clearing-
House Association several years ago, and
when the Maryland State Bankers' Associa-
tion was formed this last April Mr. Pratt
was made president. In a speech which he
made accepting the presidency he said he
felt that there was only one position higher
than to be its executive head, and that was
to be President of the United States, a posi-
tion which he did not want.
Among Baltimore bankers Mr. Pratt was
a leading advocate of the single gold stand-
ard. When this gathering of bankers in
April put itself on record with a clear-ring-
Ing sound-money declaration Mr. Pratt led
in three cheers for the resolution as a more
emphatio declaration than a mere formal
vote.
Finance Commissioner,
As one of the finance commissioners of
Baltimore city for many yours Mr. Pratt's
foresight and prudence in its monetary
curities. He was one of the best-posted men
affairs enhanced the value of the city's so
on municipal finances in this country, and
his prestige as a financier made his opinions
much sought after and followed.
It was in 1877 that he was first chosen a
finance commissioner by a unanimous vote
of the City Council! This was all the more
complimentary to him personally because of
the fact that the Council was democratic and
Mr. Pratt a life-long republican. Pressuro
of private interests compelled him to with-
draw after a time, but in 1883, when the late
James Hodges became Mayor, he Induced
Mr. Pratt to return to the post, and there he
remained unth April, 1894. Mr. Hodges had
been a fellow-member of the finance com-
mission during Mr. Pratt's first incumbency.
A Keen Political Observer,
With this exception, Mr. Pratt uniformly
refused to accept any nominations to politi-
cal office, although frequently solicited to
do so. In 1880 he was nominated for Con-
gress by the republicans of the fourth dis
trict, but this was declined. He was fre
quently mentioned for the governorship. An
noute observer of men and events, he took a
great interest in politics and legislation. His
influence was constantly felt in the City
Councils and at Annapolis in procuring
action upon important measures.
Capacity for Executive Work,
Mr. Pratt's great capacity for executive
work is indicated by the number of business
interests with which he was identified as
director or officer. At the time of his death
he was a director in the Seaboard and
Roanoke and Wilmington, Columbia and Au-
gusta Railroad Companies, in the Bay Line
-Steamboat Company, the Savings Bank of
Baltimore and the Maryland and Peabody
Fire Insurance Companies. In former years
he'had been vice-president and director of
the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore
Railroad, director in the Baltimore, Chesa-
peako and Atlantic Raliroad, the Baltimore
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.