Entertainment by Schoolboys.
An enjosable musical and literary enter-
tainment, concluding with "The Naval In-
spector," a comic operetta in one act, was
riven last evening by the small boys of Cal-
vert Hall College in the concert hall of the
institution, Mulberry and Cathedral streets.
Recitations, essaye, vocal violin and cluri-
net solos were given by Masters William J.
Ostondort, Charles O'Donnell Lee, James J.
MeDonogh, George S. Nicholas, Richard Mc-
Sherry, Jr., Edward H. Burke, Clarence Mil-
holland, Eddie Considine, George Yeakel,
Harry Stallo, Eugene J. Cronin, Edward L.
Flanagan, Frank II. Gunther, John M. Deven,
James I. Fation, Charles E. McCusker, Wal-
ter M. Farber, Frank H. Stallo, Samuel J.
McCormick, Ferd. A. Muth and Harry A.
Murphy. Choruses by the Juniors' choir and
selections by the orchestra were also given.
The cast for "The Naval Inspector" in-
cluded Masters T. Reginald Wise, B. A. Hart-
well, Ferd. A. Muth, William J. Storck, E. J.
Katzenberger, William J. Portner and Wil-
liam J. Carroll. Prof. A. J. Shenuit's Or-
chestra furnished the music.
Begging on the Street,
Charles Benson, colored, aged twelve
years, was committed to the reformatory at
Cheltenham, yesterday, by Justice Schoen,
for begging on the street. He was arrested
on the complaint of Miss Laura J. Amos, an
agent of the Charity Organization Society.
The boy has but one leg, but he is an expert
bicyclist, and was often scen riding a wheel.
His parents live at 512 Preston street.
Brune Hotapps and Emil Henkefent were
also arrested for begging on the street. The
men stated that they were farm hands and
out of work. They said they had made their
way from Cleveland to Washington and
had walked from Washington to Baltimore.
They had stopped at the House of Correc-
tion and asked to be taken in for two or
three months, but the officers of the Institu-
tion told them to come to Baltimore and get
a committal from a justice.
They had begged in order to be arrested, and
asked the justice to send them to the House
of Correction. The justice gave each of them
ninety davs.
Two Women Poisoned.
Mrs. Florence Lindsay attempted to com-
mit suicide late Monday night by drinking
iodine at her home, 1529 Cole street. For the
last three months she has been subject to
temporary aberrations of mind. It is sup-
posed she took the iodine during one of them.
Dr. J. Burch Joyce was summoned from
bis office, 1424 Hollins street, and, after pro-
nouncing the woman out of danger, left sev-
eral tablets containing strychnine to be
given her at stated intervals.
Mrs. Grace Rothrock, who lives in the same
house, discovered the tablets on a mantel-
plece and swallowed six of them. As a con-
sequence she was soou in a dangerous coudi-
tion, and Dr. Joyce was once more summoned
to the house. Mrs. Rothrock was out of all
danger last night, but Mrs. Lindsay is still
very ill.
He Fired to Frighten.
Justice Janetzke yesterday released for
court Ignatius Klug, charged with assault-
ing his stepson, Benjamin R. Elliott, with in-
tent to kill. The accused was also bound
over to keep the peace on the complaint of
his wife, who stated that Klug had threat-
ened to do her bodily harm. They live at
2437 Eastern avenue. Several days ago a
domestic quarrel took place, and Mr. Klug
states that Mr. Elliott became angry and
struck at him with a chair, when he drew a
revolver and fired it in the air to frighten
Elhott.