Forecast for Kaltimore and Vicinity,
The United States weather bureau forecast
for today for Baltimore, Washington and
vicinity is for fair and warmer weather.
Foreign Affairs,
Many of the German army officers who
have been training Chinese soldiers have
left the service because of the indignities
heaped upon them. These attacks are be-
heved to be part of a scheme to drive out
the Germans to make way for Russians.
The younger officers in the Spanish army
side with General Borrero in the dispute
with Marshal Campos, and it is thought a
duel will eventually take place. The mar-
shal is charged with being a Mentor to roy-
alty.
S. M. Moore, chairman of the Chicago Ar-
menian relief committee, cables from Con-
stantinople that "relief must be continued
until fall. Large contributions must come,
or one-balt million people wilt starve."
Representatives of several peace and arbi-
tration societies gave a reception at Morey
Lodge, London, yesterday to Mr. Joseph
Pulitzer, proprietor of the New York Worid.
The North German Lloyd Steamship Com-
pany will start a direct service between Bre-
men and Galveston, Texas, with the steamer
Halle on September 20.
Emperor William has intimated a desire to
stand as godfather to Prince Bismarck's
grandson, the son of Count William Bas-
marck.
The French Niger expedition has been
routed in the Borgan country and many of
its members killed with polsoned arrows.
John Hays Hammond expects to leave the
Transvaal within a few days en route for the
United States.
City and Suburban.
Thirteenth ward democrats held a mass-
meeting to protest against the leadership of
James J. Flannery World's Fair awards to
the public schools of Baltimoro have been re-
ccived The annual contest between the Car-
rollton and Bancroft Socioties of the City Col-
lege took place at Ford's Opera House A
large number of schools held their closing
exercises.
Holders of the first preferred stock of the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad took steps to
secure the payment of the guaranteed 6 per
cent. dividend on the stock Mr. Wilham
Reynolds was elected chairman of the
executive committee of the Civil-Ser-
vice Retorin Association Cardinal Gib-
bons appointed Rev. Joseph Skretnoy 'as
pastor of St. Stanislaus' Catholic Church to
succeed the late Rev. John Rodowicz Mayor
Hooper gave a public hearing to friends and
opponents of the Falls road railway ordi-
nance Mr. Theodore Mottu, lumber mer-
chant, died at his home, 1110 West Lafayette
avenue.
C. Morton Stewart & Co.'s new four-masted
barkentine Josephine arrived from Belfast,
Me., where she was built The James Clark
Company will launch today a large tugboat
to be called the Mary.
Lawrence A. Scharnagel, fourteen years
old, was acquitted of the murder of Fred-
erick W. Vogt, fifteen years old Arthur
Duzent, charged with shooting and killing
Henry Kuhiborne, was released on $2,000
bail The trial of the first of the suits for
damages growing out of the pante and loss
of life at the old Front Street Theatre last
December was commenced.
Lines for new precincts in Baltimore
county were fixed by the election super-
visors An American Bag was raised over
the school at Providence, near Towson=
Mary Ann McGovern was awarded one cent
damages in her suit against the City and
Suburban Railway for $2,500.
Financial.
At the Baltimore Stock Exchange Virginia
Century bonds were weak. The decline wAS
attributed to sales of foreign holdings as the
result of declaration for free sliver by the
Virginia democratic State convention. In
New York the feeling was firmer and early
advances were recorded in nearly ali issues.
Sugar made un one-third ot the total sales
and advanced 216. to 12494. Tobacco fluc-
tunted about a point. Delaware and Hud-
son gained a point and the Granger and
Southwestern shares rose important frac-
tions. The final dealings were active and
the close was hrm. Silver certificates de-
clined on sales of 50,000 omces.
Maryland.
Secretary Herbert delivered diplomas to
the graduates of the Naval Academy, at An-
napotis, and the oration was delivered by
Congressman John B. Robinson, of Pennsyl-
vania.
The democrats will hold conventions today
in Allegany and Frederick countles. They
will hold primaries in Anne Arundel, Balti-
more county. Calvert, Carrol, Garrett, How-
ard, Prince George's and Worcester counties.
Governor Lowndes will join the trustees of
Springfield Asylum at Ogdensburg, N. Y.
Senator-elect George L. Wellington will
make a Fourth-of-July speech at Brunswick,
Frederick county colored girl has been
arrested in Carroll county, charged with af-
tempting to polson the family of William
Boyer, at Ridgeville.
Davis and the two Quillens, charged with
the murder of Hamblin in Worcester county.
were acquitted by the jury Rising Sun,
Cecil county, is having an experience of fires
of a mysterious origin There is talk of
creating three more voting precincts in
Cecil county The postoffice at Muutiken's
Station, Prince George's county, was robbed
The colored boys at Cheltenham Reforma-
tory are being taught telegraphy.
National Affairs.
The Senate has confirmed the nomination
of Wm. Churchill, of New York, to be con-
sul-general at Apia, Samon Secretary of
War Lamont has gone to McGrawville, N.
Y., where Mrs. Lamont's father is seriously
ill A favorable report has been ordered by
the House committee for the reference of
election contests to the United States Cir-
cuit Courts for the district within which the
contestees reside Col. Henry W. Closson,
fourth artillery, goes on the retired list t
day-Chairman Dingley, of the House ways
and means committee, made an adverse ге-
port on the Senate resolution prohibiting
bond issues without authority of Congress.
The report is signed by eleven republicans
and two democrats The governments con-
tributing to the maintenance of the bureau
of American republics will continue the
bureau as an international organization
under the supervision of the executive com-
mitter An effort will be made to unsent
Representatative Tucker, of Virginia, al-
though the committee on election reported
that he was fairly elected to the House The
President is expected to veto the general
deficiency bill as soon as it is sent to him.
Congressional,
Mr. Morgan wave the Senate a revival of
the Cuban question and urged the adoption
of his resolution calling on the President for
Information of the Americans taken on the
Competitor and now under sentence of death
at Havana. On the suggestion of Mr. Sher-
man, chairman of the committee on foreign
relations, the Senate went into secret ses-
sion, where, after a further argument by Mr.
Morgan, bis resolution was placed on the
calendar, which is equivalent to postponing
action. The question of electing Senators by
the people was discussed by Senators
Mitchell, Perkins, Chandier, Palmer and
Hawley.
The House unseated two more democrats,
Mr. Lockhart, from the seventh North Caro-
lina district, and Mr. Downing, from the
sixteenth Illinois district, and seated in the
place of former Mr. Martin, a populist, who
had been indorsed by the republicans, and
in place of latter Mr. Rinaker, a republican.
Mr. Downing was the only democrat from
Illinois. A good deal of partisan feeling was
aroused among the democrats by the rulings
of Mr. Payne, (republican, of New York.)
who was temporarily in the chair, and on
one or two occasions there was a reminder
of the turbulent scenes of the Fifty-first Con-
gress.
District of Columbia.
Fred. Davis, colored, was arrested for
breaking into the house of Thos. Hardesty.
Mr. Hardesty would have shot him, but his
rifle missed fire The plan of the ca veators
in the Holt will case is to attack the alleged
will as a forgery C. W. Hall & Co., cigar
dealers at 337 Fifteenth street, have failed,
with assets estimated at $10,158 and liabil-
ities of $10,036 A. E. Shoemaker and An-
drew Wilson appeared before the commis-
sloners in the interest of a bill incorporating
the Anti-Saloon League The grand jury in-
dicted Wm. Lucas for setting up a gaming
taole John G. Cunningham, charged with
conspiracy, was turned over to New Orleans
detectives tor trial in Louisiana John Nor-
ris has filed a bill for divorce from Catharine
Norris Sadie Buxton is dead. Her death
will hasten the proceedings against Ran-
dolph. The colored people will contribute
toward the latter's defense.
Virginia and West Virginia,
T. S. Curlett, a prominent candidate for
the republican nomination for Congress in
the first district of Virginia, says he will not
accept the nomination except upon a sound-
money platform=Ex-Sheriff Robert R. Witt
has been appointed clerk of the Circuit
Court for Rockbridge County=Mrs. Mary A.
B. Daniel, of Prince George county, is dead=
The explosion of a boiler in a saw mill at
Swift Creek, Chesterfield county, seriously
injured A. Gill, one of the owners of the
mill.
President Goodknicht, of the West Virginia
University, gave a reception to the senior
class, which was largely attended. The Ma-
sonic fraternity of Charlestown, W. Va., en-
tertained the ladies who worked for the suc
cess of the fair held recently for the benefit
of the lodge in that town. Mrs. Perry, wife
of Dr. William E. Perry, on trial at Charles-
town, W. Va., charged with assaulting Miss
Rose J. Johnson, testified in behalf of her
husband. Col. Robert T. Harvey, father of
W. H. Harver, of Chicago, author of "Coin's
Financial School," died in Huntington, W.
Va., aged eighty-two years.
New York and Pennsylvania,
In New York Bettina Gerard was slightly
injured by a bicycle Mrs. Lascelles was
divorced from the man who had claimed το
be Lord Beresford=It is said that politics is
creeping into the New York police board=
A verdict for $5,000 was rendered against
a Brooklyn physician upon an action
by Mrs. Sorcerson for "degrading the
memory of her deceased daughter"=Wm. R.
Dunlop pleaded guilty to the indictment for
stealing the Burden jewels-The steamer St.
Paul made a new record from Southampton
to New York Ex-Governor Brown and his
children sailed for Europe Mayor Strong
issued an order placing 142 offices under the
civil-service rule.
The equestrian statues of Gen. George G.
Meade and Gen. Winfield S. Hancock, erected
by the State of Pennsylvania on Gettysburg
battlefield, were unveiled yesterday in the
presence of a large gathering of veterans.
Robert Bonner, of New York, was re-
elected president of the Scotch-Irish Society
at Harrisburg, Pa., yesterday.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.