MISS DAMMANN IN A CONVENT
Enters The Order Of The Sacred Heart
At The Provincial House In
Albany, N. Y.
Miss Grace Dammann, daughter of Mr.
J. Frank Datamaan, 731 Wont Lanyule
street, has joined the order of the Ladies
of the Sacred Heart, entering the provin-
cial house of the order at Albany, N. Y.
The members of this religious commn-
nity devote their lives to the Christian
education of youth. Boarding schools,
parochial schools and orphan anylums for
girls are conducted by them. The order
was introduced in the United States in
1818 by Madame Philipine Duchesne, who
founded a convent at St. Charles, Mo. The
Society of the Sacred Heart was founde
at Amiens in the year 1840 by Made-
moiselle Sophie Barat. It was approved
by Pope Plus the Seventh in 1926. The
community is semi-clofstered and follows
the rule of the Jesuits.
One of the most prominent schools con-
ducted by the Society of the Sacred Heart
Is the famous Eden Hall, at Torrendale,
Pa., on the main line of the Pennsylvania
Kallroad to New York, about twenty miles
from Philadelphia. This institution has
been Itherally endowed by the Drexels
and other wealthy people.

Now Homestead Methodist Church.
Rev. Dr. Sharky. of the Minnesota
Methodist Episcopal Conference, deliv-
ered a mission address yesterday after-
noon to the Foreign Missionary Society of
Homestead Methodist Episcopal Church,
of which Rev. J. T. Hart is pastor.
During his address Dr. Sharky referred
to the necessity of a new church at Home-
stead. The present building is much too
small and the congregation have already
decided to build Plans have been pre-
pared for a stone edifice to cost about
$10,000. Sites are being examined, and it
is expected to build this year.
The present church is the outgrowth of
a mission of Waverly Methodist Episcopal
Church. In 1879 the present church was
built. It is a frame structure, one story
high. The congregation numbers sixty-
five, with a Sunday-school of one hundred
and eighty pupils.

An Address By A Woman Lawyer.
Miss Diana Hirschler, of Philadelphia,
Pa., lectured last night before the Balti-
more Branch of the Council of Jewish
Women, at the Eutaw Place Temple, upon
"The Home and Its Relation to the Moral
Life of the Community."
Miss Hirschler stated in part that the
mission of the home was to develop love
and sympathy, and that the great truths
preached by religion and humanity
were Included In the idea of the
brotherhood of man. She dwelt long
upon the necessity of carrying love
and sympathy into the business life and
avoiding the terrific strife and struggle
engendered there.
She is a lawyer, being a member of the
Boston bar, and recently admitted to the
bar in Philadelphia. She is prominent in
the Philadelphia Branch of the Council of
Jewish Women.

Colored House Of Reformation.
The twenty-fifth report of the board of
managers of the House of Reformation
for Colored Boys, at Cheltenham, has
been issued in neat pamphlet, covering
the two years ended November 30, 1897.
During the twenty-four years' existence
of the institution it has cared for 2,120
boys, all of whom have been discharged
except the present 296 inmates. The aver-
age number of commitments is 150.
An appropriation is asked of $17.000 in
addition to the regular appropriation for
current expenses. This sum is to be used
for improving the sanitary arrangements
of the central and family buildings, to
extend the water supply and steam-heat-
ing system, the construction of bathing
arrangements, improvement of the hos-
pital, for an ice plant and for a building
for temporary detention of uncontrollable
inmates.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.