GENERAL HORN'S DEATH
His Army Career, And As A Reforma-
tory Superintendent and War-
den Of The Penitentiary.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.]
MARLBORO, MD, Oct. 4.-Gen John W.
Horn, formerly warden of the Maryland
penitentiary, and latesuperintendent of the
House of Reformation for Colored Boys at
Cheltenham, died today on his farm at
Mitchellville, Prince George's county, aged
about sixty-six years In August last he
became seriously ill, but rallied, though, as
he sald at the time, it would not be long
before he must succumb. His death was
not unexpected by his friends, who saw
and knew his enfeebled state for some
wonths past.
General Horn had a good record as a sol-
diet, and in civil life as an administrator.
He was among the first Marylanders to
volunteer in the Union Army at the out-
break of the late war. He was a captain
in the Fifth Maryland Union Regiment in
1562 He was promoted to the heutenant-
colonelcy of the Sixth Maryland Regiment
and served gallantly in the field iHe was
in command of the Second Brigade, Thna
Division of the Sixth Corps, at the battle
of Cold Harbor. He was badly wounded
at Winchester, September 19, 1964. where
he fought under Sheridan. Γοι his gal-
lantry in this engagement he was brevetted
brigadier-general of volunteers.
When the war was over he became super-
intendent of the Cheltenham Institution,
for which his ideas of discipline and other
qualities emirently fitted him. He did much
to organize the system upon which the re-
forniatory was conducted. During the ad-
ministration of Gov. Hamilton, which be-
gan in 1880, he was elected warden of the
Maryland penitentiary, where he remained
for six years He subsequently became
again the superintendent of the Chelten-
ham Reformators, and continued in that
position until fuling health obliged his re-
tirement a short while ago.
He was past commander of the Grand
Army department in Maryland and stood
igh in the Masonic order
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.