FOR REFORMATION OF BOYS
Managers Of The House Of Refuge And
Of The Cheltenham Institution
Hold Their Annual Meetings.
At the annual meeting of the board of
managers of the House of Refuge, Thurs-
day, officers were elected as follows: Pres-
ident, Joshua Levering; vice-president,
Joseph Meriefield, secretary, Maurice Laup-
heimer; treasurer, Edward H. Thomson.
Messrs. Meriefield, Levering. Laupheimer,
Thomson, W. B. Graves. Charles Markell,
James Carey, Jr., J. H. Hancock, Thomas
S. Baer and J. D. Iglehart were elected
managers at a meeting Wednesday of the
subscribers.
The board of managers of the Colored
House of Reformation at Cheltenham
Thursday elected the following officers:
President, Frank Woods; secretary, Jos. J.
Janney; treasurer, Edward Stabler, Jr.;
executive committee, Frank Woods, Jo-
seph J. Janney, Edward Stabler, Jr., T.
Erskine Carson, J. Harry Lee, Charles
Marshall and Henry C Reed; finance com-
mittee, Frank Woods, T. Erskine Carson
and Charles Marshall; school committee,
G. S. Griffith, C. C. Magruder and Charles
P. Blackburn.
ANSWERS TO QUERIES
Bits Of Information On Many, Many
Subjects Furnished Readers Of
The Sun.
Subscriber: Gen. Marcus J. Wright is
from Tennessee.
The twenty-first of October, 1854, fell
upon a Saturday.
The twenty-sixth of September, 1877,
fell upon a Wednesday.
The Concordia Opera House was de-
stroyed by fire on June 10, 1891.
"Can the Ethiopian change his skin, or
the leopard his spots," is found in Jere-
miah, 13, 23.
Thomas Holliday Hicks was elected Gov-
ernor of Maryland, by the American party,
In 1857, for four years from January 1,
1858.
"Laugh. and the world laughs with you;
weep and you weep alone!" This quota-
tion is taken from one of the poems of
Mrs. Ella Wheeler Wilcox.
Alexander Nisbett was appointed an as-
soclate judge of the Baltimore City Court
February 5, 1817. There is no printed
record of the end of his service.
A Subscriber: The headquarters of the
American Banking Association is 20 Brovi
street, New York. The address of the
Committee on Uses of Banks is postoffice
drawer No. 2ST, Buffalo, N. Y.
A list of past and present naval com-
manders can be found in Hammersley's
"General Register of the United States
Navy and Marine Corps for One Hundred
Years," printed in Baltimore in 1882 by
William K. Boyle.
Changes In Firms.
Clinton Summers and Louis Yakel adver-
tise that they have formed the Summers
Printing Company, to conduct a printing,
engraving and lithographing business, with
Summers as general partner and Yakel as
special partner.
Henry II. Lucke and Rudolph H. Lucke
advertise that they have dissolved their
partnership and that Rudolph H. Lucke
will conduct the tailoring business alone
at 27 South Calvert street.
Dogs With Symptoms Of Rabies,
A subscriber is informed that his two
dogs, which show symptoms of being af-
fected with rables, should be killed at
once. They cannot be regarded as safe
from the disease for a long period of time.
The risk of keeping such dogs is far in
excess of any possible benefits. The
symptonis may come on any time after the
ninth day, and generally within three
months, but sometimes the incubation
period is delayed for many months.