THE GRAND JURY
Report for the September Term
Presented and the Jurors
Discharged
CRITICISMS AND SUGGESTIONS.
Need of Buildings for Children
and Witnesses in the Jail.
The Two Female Members of the Bay-.
view Board Praised for the Reforms
They Have Introduced-Filtration of
the Water Supply and Extension of
Sèwers Advocated,
The grand jury for the September term of
the Criminal Court, Mr. William Reed fore-
man, was finally discharged yesterday, with
the thanks of the court. Its report states
that the jury considered 1,991 cases, of which
868 were presented and 1,123 dismissed. Sum-
monses were issued for 6,769 witnesses to ap-
pear beforo' the jury, and it examined and
signed 1,208 election certificates, a greater
number than sent before any previous grand
jury. The report then continues:
"We wish to call special attention to the
report on the city jail. The necessity for a
separate building for children, who are now
Incarcerated with the older prisoners, and
also a place for people detained as witnesses
is imperative. We commend this to the
earnest attention of the Mayor and City
Council. The grand jury were much im-
pressed with Warden Balley's kindness to
the prisoners and the strict discipline which
prevails in the institution.
"We also desire to call the attention of the
court to the report on the penitentiary,
which shows an increased revenue to the
State. Too much credit cannot be given to
Warden Weyler and his deputtes for the per-
fect discipline and the healthy condition of
the inmates.
"In the report on the Bayview Asylum we
would call attention to the improvements
instituted by the trustees. The two ladies
appointed on the board have given much
time and shown much practical knowledge
in remedying the defects in the Institution.
The establishment of the department.of
trained nurses marks a great advance in the
treatment of inmates. The grand jury
recommend that a sufficient appropriation
should be made to enable the trustees and
Captain Lewis, the superintendent, to carry
out the plans for improved ventilation and
sanitary conditions, absolutely necessary for
the health of the inmates.
"The grand fury are unanimous in their
appreciation of the devotion to duty, dis-
cipline and zeal displayed by the police
force.
"We desire to tender our thanks to the
clerks of the Criminal Court for courtesies
extended during our official term."
Accompanying the report were the usual
reports of the grand jury committees. An
Important one of these is the report of the
sanitary committee, which, in part, is as
follows:
Sanitary Condition.
"The sanitary committee reports that the
general sanitary condition of the city, while
not entirely satisfactory, is as good as can
be expected under existing ciroumstances;
that is, without any filtration of the water
supply and without any adequate system of
sewers for such a large city. It is inevitable
that the contamination of the soil by pollut-
ing matters, which ought to go directly into
sewers instead of cesspools, bas much to do
with the prevalence of typhoid fever and
kindred diseases and it is a matter of sur-
prise that the health of the city, all things
considered, is as good as it is. Still, the con-
dition calls for serious consideration.
"The powers of the health department
shall be amplified by the enactment of proper
statutes or ordinances in order to render it
more effective and to extend its work and
usefulness.
Sewers Needed.
"The sanitary committee would report
that it has visited and inspected several re-
ported nuisances, notably one in the section
of East Baltimore bounded by Patterson
Park, Lombard street, East avenue, Fayette
and Luzerne streets. It is a noteworthy fact
that during the past summer but few fami
lies in the neighborhood escaped malarial
fever or some kindred disease occasioned by
the foul and stagnant water in this section.
This nuisance, as testified to by the city and
health commissioners, can only be abated by
the bullaing of sewers to properly drain
these low lands. The matter has been pushed
so far as to have two ordinances drawn by
the city commissioner and presented to the
City Council for an appropriation sufficient
to bulld two sewers, and the committee cannot
too strongly urge upon the City Council the
necessity for prompt and immediate action.
By this improvement a vast area of marshy
land will be reclaimed, tax receipts will be
augmented and the health of thousands of
people materially improved."
Building for Young Prisoners.
The committee on the jail in their report
commend Warden Bailey and Dr. James C.
Clarke, jail physician, for the excellent con-
dition of the institution.
"We heartily indorse the recommendations
of former juries and others in regard to the
isolation of juvenile offenders," the report
continues, "There is an average of fifteen to
twenty boys there, whose ages range from
seven to sixteen years, committed by mazis-
trates mostly on trivial charges because of
their parents' unwillingness or inability to
pay their fines. It is a terrible object lesson
to them, to say the least, to be condned in
sight and hearing of criminals of all kinds
and conditions, though the warden does all
in his power to counteract this by placing
them on a separate tler and not letting them
come into contact with the other criminals
at any time, as they eat at a special table for
themselves.
"By all means there snould be a separate
building for these, and also for the detention
of witnesses, who often suffer great hard-
ship by being confined with criminals for no
other reason than that they witnessed some
crime and cannot prove to the satisfaction
of the authorities that they will be on band
to testify at the trial."
Bayview Asylum.
The committee on Bayview Asylum found
the institution in excellent condition, but
overcrowded. They recommend the pur-
chase of at least fifty acres of land adjoin-
ing the asylum grounds' on the east and a
liberal appropriation for a large additional
building for the insane. A separate ward or
building for tən idiotic children in the ass-
lum and the employment of skilled female
nurses in the infirmaries are also recom-
mended.
House of Correction Overcrowded.
The committee on the House of Correction
reported that the institution is as well con-
ducted as possible in its overcrowded condi
tiou. They found the institution wholly in-
adequate to the number of prisoners, there
being but 230 cells and 465 prisoners, of a hom
28 were females.
Colored House of Reformation.
According to the report of the committee
of the Colored House of Reformation at
Cheltenham, the condition of that institu-
tion is much worse than that of the others.
In the report on that institution the commit-
tee say:
"The building designated as the hospital is
a smail, one-story frame structure, sitting
about one foot from the ground, on brick
piers. There were six boys confined there
the day of our visit, two of whom were far
gone with consumption. The room was des-
situte of comfort except the cots. There was
not a seat of any kind in the room, and the slok
boys presented a pitiable sight as they sat on
the edges of their cots. The management of
this branch of the institution is extremely
bad, and demands immediate and radical
reform. The sewerage is primative in char-
acter, though there were no bad effects ap-
parent therefrom. Several of the buildings
aro in bad condition and suffering for needed
repairs. There were several other less im-
portant evidences of neglect, and on the
whole the committee were not favorably im-
pressed with the management."
For the January Term.
The grand jury for the January term were
not sworn in yesterday, as two of those se-
lected were excused. They were Messrs.
Gaun M. Hutton and Henry Williams. At a
meeting of the Supreme Bench Messrs. Ed-
win F. Baker, 211 East Mount Royal avenue.
aud Horace Noble, 8 West North avenue,
were selected to fill the vacancies. The new
grand jurors were then summoned for this
morning.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.