Forecast For Baltimore And Vicinity.
The United States weather bureau fore-
cast for today for Baltimore, Washington
and vicinity is for fair weather, with
cooler temperature.
Foreign Affairs.
The Nicaraguan and Costa Rican govern-
ments have agreed as a basis for peace to
settle questions of an international char-
acter by a board of arbitration, to consist
of one member each from Guatemala,
Costa Rica and the Diet of the Greater
Republic of Centrai America, to meet on
board the United States warship Alert.
Mr. Gladstone is reported to be in a
dying condition.
The United States minister at Athens
has received many applications from
Greeks to enlist in the American Army.
Yachts of American millionaires now in
the Mediterranean are said to be in much
danger from hostile warships.
Spain And Cuba.
A special cablegram to THE SUN from
Havana states that Admiral Sampson has
given notice that he will bombard the city
today. A Washington dispatch states
that Admiral Sampson's orders contem-
plate no immediate bombardment.
Part of the American fleet has left to
blockade Matanzas, Mariel and Cardinas.
The fleet has so far captured seven mer-
chant vessels as prizes.
Havana's guns opened fire on the Ameri-
can ships Friday night, but did no damage.
Congress is expected to declare war to-
day.
The Spanish admirals, at a meeting in
Madrid, are said to have decided upon a
plan of naval campaign.
Martial law has been proclaimed in
Porto Rico. The Americans on the Island
are without protection and are in danger.
The authorities prohibit the departure of
refugees.
City And Suburban.
The land militia forces of Maryland will
be in camp tonight at Pimlico, where the
regiments have been ordered to assemble
The men will have regular army fare and
uniforms, and will learn what it means to
be a soldier in the field Preparations were
made at the camp yesterday, the inde.
pendent colored company of Baltimore
being in charge The Maryland forces
have preferred a request to the War De-
partment to be sent into the field as an
entirety under command of Brigadier-Gen-
cral Lawrason Riggs.
The work of mining the channel ap.
proaches to Baltimore harbor is being vig-
Grously pushed by the United States en-
gineers under charge of Col. Peter C.
Hains and merchant vessels have been
warned of the presence of torpedoes
Baltimore-owned vessels now on the seas
and liable to capture by the Spaniards are
enumerated in another column.
At the annual dinner of St. George's
Society much enthusiasm was manifested=
The annual meeting and election of officers
of the Hebrew Orphan Asylum was held
at Progress Hall.
Rev. Carl D. Abbetmeyer was Installed
pastor of Emmanuel Evangelical Lutheran
Church, Schroeder and Peirce streets-Au-
gust Simon, treasurer of the Confederate
Relief Bazar, expects the net proceeds to
be over $20,000.
Olin Beall, a four-year-old boy from
Frostburg, Md., who was bitten by a sup-
posed mad dog, is at the Pasteur depart-
ment of the City ospital for treatment.
Maryland.
In the countles of Maryland there is a
manifestation of war spirit. The militia
will leave their homes today for the camp
at Arlington. Some of the companies will
be escorted to the trains by great numbers
of citizens. In many of the counties en-
listinents are going on and new companies
organizing. In Hagerstown the Rev. E.
H. Delk, of the Lutheran Church,
preached a sermon in favor of the war-
William Dudrow, a Baltimore Iad, was
drowned in Harris' creek, Talbot county==
An eight-year-old daughter of Richard
Smith died in Harford county from eating
some poisonous plant John Glassman's
louse near Churchville, Harford county,
was burned-Joseph Carroll, of Harford,
was wounded by the accidental discharge
of a pistol Glen Beall, a child, in Frost-
burg, was bit by a dog supposed to be
mad-A window in memory of John H.
Rigney was unveiled in the Evangelical
Reformed Church, of Frederick A man in
Cumberland was knocked down for shout-
ing for Spain Prof. Fay, of the Naval
Academy, died Saturday The residence of
E. E. Halloway, near Cheltenham, Prince
George's county, was destroyed by fire-
The Baltimore and Annapolls Canal Com-
pany adopted resolutions urging the
Round Bay dry dock Mrs. Georgiana C.
Parks died in Hagerstown.
Virginia And West Virginia.
The Presbytery of Winchester continued
Its sessions at Charlestown-Fire destroyed
the rotary house belonging to the paper
mills of Eyster & Son at Halltown=There
was a destructive wind storm in the west-
ern part of Dinwiddie county-The next
general conference of the board of bishops
and general officers of the African Metho-
dist Episcopal Zion Church of the United
States and Canada will be held in Wash-
ington in 1000-Mr. Frank M. Messick, of
Quantico, is dead The Supreme Court of
Appeals of West Virginia has decided a
case involving the title to a large tract of
coal land, valued at $1,500,000.
Miscellaneous.
Congressman W. P. Brownlow, of Ten-
nessee, was renominated in republican
primaries.
Three men were asphyxiated by a fire
in the Londonderry mines, at Cripple
Creek, Col.
The Ohio State Senate has adopted a re-
port charging that Senator Hanna at-
tempted to bribe a member of the Legis-
lature to procure his election.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.