TO REFORM BAD BOYS
4
Colored House Of Reformation
At Cheltenham Visited
By Grand Jurors.
THOROUGH INSPECTION MADE
Everything On The Place Was
In Excellent Condition.
Visitors Hearty In Their Praise Of The
Management Of The Institution-How
Escapes Are Prevented-Special Appro-
priation Of $17,000 To Be Asked Of
The State This Year.
Members of the grand jury for the Janu-
ary term of the Criminal Court, who spent
yesterday at the Colored House of Ref-
ormation at Cheltenham, were loud in
their praises of the management of that
Institution and of the apparent health-
fulness and contentment of the Inmates.
It is doubtful if the visit afforded less
pleasure to the grand jurymen than to the
colored boys, to whom it came as a great
treat by affording them a temporary re-
spite from the daily routine of study and
work.
Under the guidance of Mr. Nathan
Thompson, superintendent of the institu-
tion, the visitors thoroughly inspected
every building on the grounds, examined
the dormitories, schoolrooms, workshops
and hospital, and questioned the boys to
ascertain if they had any complaints to
make. Everything was found in a cleanly
condition. and in order. In some of the
dormitories the beds were found neatly
spread, while in others the mattresses
were exposed for the purpose, as was ex-
plained, of giving them a thorough airing.
The boys were found in the schoolrooms,
or workshops, according to the routine of
the institution. All of them wore clean,
neat clothes and all looked to be in good
condition. They showed a propensity for
begging from the visitors, but were very
sly about it, so that no one should hear
them except the one addressed. Not one
of those questioned said he did not get
enough to eat, but one or two said some of
the boys did not get all the food they
wanted. All the schoolrooms were well
heated.
There are seven principal buildings on
the grounds, the administration and six
family buildings. The superintendent
lives in the administration building, which
also contains the boys' dining room and
chapel. The schoolrooms, dormitories,
bathhouses and workshops are in the fam-
ily buildings. One of the teachers also has
his sitting room and sleeping room in each
of these buildings. The teachers' bed-
rooms are so arranged that they can look
through wickets in their doors into the
dormitories, so as to have constant super-
vision over the boys.
are
The boys are free to move about the
grounds at certain hours and they have
abundant opportunity of escape, but the
system is such that the absence of any
who leave in this way is soon detected.
The teachers and superintendents
alert and watchful, and there are constant
roll-calls. Besides, there is a standing
reward of $4 for the return of every run-
away, and this has proven a successful
means of frustrating escapes. For the
punishment of the boys each family build-
ing is provided with a cell, but this was
found in every case well lighted and clean.
In the workshops the boys make and
repair all the clothing and shoes worn by
them and cane about 82,000 chairs a year.
They also do their own laundry work, the
cooking and baking, raise the crops, shoe
the horses and clean the premises. The
institution has about 750 acres of land.
Last year there were produced on the
premises 420 barrels of corn, 934 bushels
of wheat, 27 bushels of rye, 80 tons of
hay, besides large quantities of vegetables
and fruits.
An admirable opportunity to inspect the
three hundred boys was afforded when the
bell rang to summon them to dinner. From
all parts of the grounds the boys of each
class rushed to their respective family
buildings. Then each class, in charge of
its teacher, marched in an orderly manner
to the dining room, where plates heaped
with potatoes and turnips, with a huge
slice of bread and piece of meat beside
each, awaited demolition. All the boys re
mained standing until they had chanted
grace in unison and were given the signal
to be seated. Then ensued such a clatter
of spoons and such a rapid disappearance
of food as to amaze the visitors. After the
boys had emptied their plates each one
was served bountifully with bean soup.
After dinner the boys assembled in the
chapel, where they sang hymns for the vis-
itors, a number of whom made addresses.
Not a boy could be seen in the chapel who
did not have a smiling face, and the ap-
plause was something tremendous.
The institution has been receiving $12,-
000 a year from the city and $10,000 a year
from the State. This year a special appro-
priation of $17,000 is asked from the State,
in addition to the regular appropriation,
for introducing sanitary bathing arrange.
ments for the boys, constructing an ele-
vated reservoir as a precaution against
fire and making other improvements which
were explained to the visitors. A power
house with a 75-horse-power boller bas
recently been erected, affording all the
steam necessary for use were the funds on
hand for making the improvements.
The members of the grand jury among
the visitors were Messrs. Henry C. Mat-
thews, Owen T Johnson, Joseph A. Mc-
Kellip and Charles M. Waters, of the
committee on the institution; Mr. Henry
C. Reed, assistant foreman, who is also
one of the institution's board of managers,
and Messrs. Andrew J. Miller, M. Howard
Mettee, John A. Robb and Andrew H.
Turner. Mr. Walter J. Hayward was also
present. Messrs. Frank Woods, president,
Joseph J. Janney, secretary, and T.
Erskine Carson, members of the executive
committee of the institution, assisted in
entertaining the visitors, who dined with
Superintendent Thompson.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.