BETTER SCHOOLHOUSES
Grand Jury Report Urges The
Expenditure Of More Of
The City's Money.
DANGER IN RENTED BUILDINGS
Narrow Exits And Small, III-
Ventilated Rooms.
The Issue Of Bonds To Get More Suit-
able Edifices Recommended-Criticisms
Of The Colored House Of Reformation
At Cheltenham Suggestions About
Other Institutions.
Reports of more than usual Interest
were submitted by the grand jury for the
September term of the Criminal Court
when they were finally discharged Satur-
day.
The committee on exits of public build-
Ings urge in their report the necessity of
better publie school buildings and recom-
mend the issue of bonds by the elty for
the purpose. The report in full is as fol-
lows:
"In common with many of our citizens,
the attention of the grand jury has been
drawn to our pubile school buildings, The
new structures, where completed, are ad-
mirable in every respect, but many of the
old and practically all the rented build-
ings are a disgrace to our public school
system. Children are crowded into small,
badly lighted and ventilated rooms, to the
constant menace of the health of teachers
and children alike. It is impossible to
maintain under such conditions proper
discipline or attain the best results in
any particular,
Dangerous School Exits.
"The exits from many of these buildings
are entirely inadequate. In some of the
rented properties, which were formerly
private dwellings, there is only one single
narrow stairway in the centre of the
building. In case of fire or pante arising
from any cause the lives of many of the
children would be sacrificed in the en-
deavor to escape. In the event of such a
disaster, which is constantly confronting
us, the city would, in all probability, have
costly damages to pay. The lives of the
children in care of the city, so far as it is
possible to do so, should be made abso-
lutely sufe, and proper fire-escapes should
be erected on afl such buildings at once.
In
"The school board is not responsible for
this state of affairs. They do the best
they can with the funds and facilities
atforded them. They are confronted by
many difficulties by this lack of adequate
facilities. To illustrate in one case:
one of our best new schools all the rooms
are not completed. By reason of this one
reacher in one grade, which should be
divided into two classes, has nearly sev-
enty children under her charge. It is im-
possible for her to give or the children
to receive proper attention. The result
is the teacher and the school are liable to
unjust criticism. The trouble is not there,
but is owing to lack of a suflicient appro-
priation to properly cotaplete and equip
sufficient of the building to supply the
needs and the demands of the school.
Opposed To Rented Buildings.
"In the judgment of the grand jury a
bill should be passed by the present Legis-
lature authorizing the issuing by the city
of bonds to an amount suflicient to build
and equip modern school buildings to take
the place of all rented and badly adapted
edifices now being used for school pur-
poses in this city."
Messrs John S. Chandlee, John L...
Blake. Lawrence N. Frederick. Wm. H.
Grafflin and David Hutzler composed the
committee which made the report.
Criticisms Of Cheltenham,
The report of the committee on the
House of Reformation for Colored Boys at
Cheltenham. Prince George's county, con-
tains some sharp criticisms on the man-
agement of that institution. When the
committee visited the institution, on De-
comber 18, there were 300 boys confined
there. It was 11 o'clock in the morning
when the committee arrived, but they
found that not a room had been cleaned
or a bed made at that hour. While in the
administration and some of the family
buildings there was a general condition of
leanliness, the committee found that in
family building No. 2 the walls needed
whitewash and the plastering had fallen
from the ceiling in several places, exposing
the laths and giving a general forlorn ap-
pearance to the interior.
100
In the opinion of the committee the fail-
ure to have the rooms cleaned and the
beds made did not show good management,
as there were such a large number of
bors to do the work. The committee also
found that neither the school nor sleeping
room of the boys is heated, and that the
bedding in the sleeping room was insutli-
cient. The report states that the manage-
ment of the institution admitted that the
bedding was insufficient, but claimed pov-
erty as the reason. The reason assigned
for not having heat in the school or bed-
toom, the report also s States, was the fea
of accident by tire. "Leaving out the
question of humanity," the report contin-
ues, "the committee consider this condi-
tion of affairs detrimental to health, as the
colored race is especially subject to throat
and lung troubles." The workshop wis
found to be well heated, but there is no
Sanitary system in the buildings occupied
by the boys.
The report also states that very little
food is raised on the farm of several hun-
dred acres attached to the institution, so
that nearly all the food has to be shipped
from Baltimore at high freight rates. This
featume, the committee state, does not
compare favorably with that used at the
House of Correction, where the produce of
the farm largely supplies the institution.
The committee recommend the establish-
ment of a manual training school at Chel-
tenham, so the boys may be taught trades.
They found something to praise in the
bakehouse and kitchen, which were in a
Jeanly condition, and the character of the
bread and other food was excellent. The
committee, in conclusion, "regret that but
few of the directors on the part of the
city or State tind time to visit the institu-
tion and keep in actual touch with this
Important work of reformation among col-
ored boys," The committee was composed
of Mrs. Arthur Boehm, Joseph Devlin,
William II. Rogers, William T. Dillehunt
and Alfred II. Pitts.
Penitentiary And Jail.
The report of the committee on the peni-
tentiary praises the management of War-
den John F. Weyler, and recommends the
the completion of the new penitentiary
itminedinte appropriation of $300,000 for
buildings in order that their occupancy
may not be indennitely postponed. The
excess of receipts over expenditures last
year was $27.871.84, an increase of $10,-
007.30 over 1896. "If such excellent and
judicious management is continued," the
report states, "the surplus profits will take
care of an interest of 3% per cent. on $800,-
000." The large increase of 58 per cent, in
colored prisoners shows, in the opinion of
the committee, that crime is more preva-
lent among that class and should receive
the attention of the court.
The general management of the jail was
found to be good by the committee on that
Institution.
Houses Of Correction And Refuge.
In their report on the House of Cor-
rection the committee express their "full
and entire satisfaction as to the able man-
ner the affairs are administered, and com-
pliment W. D. Slack and his assistants
upon their success so far during their term
of otuce. The committee recommend the
erection of an additional building to meet
the demand for more cell space, and also
of a building to be used as a workshop.
An electric-light plant is also much needed,
the report states, and telephone connection
with the city is suggested.
An electric-light plant for the House of
Refuge is also recommended in the report
of the committee on that institution. This
would cost about $1,000, the report states,
and would be a saving of about 40 per
cent. over the present method of lighting
by gas.
The management of the other institu-
tions visited by the grand jury was com-
mended in the committee reports.
Meagre Results In Liquor Cases.
Col. Henry T. Douglas, foreman, pre-
sented a separate report, which was de-
veted mainly to a statement of the meagre
results obtained in liquor cases sent to the
grand jury. Colonel Douglas also called
attention to the committee reports, which,
he stated, were based on careful and con-
scientious examination, and which he fully
indorsed. The grand jury considered 1,629
cases and examined 4,001 witnesses. They
considered 308 liquor eases, of which 476
were dismissed for lack of evidence and
32 were Indicted. "A change in the pres-
ent methods is necessary if the law is to be
sustained," the report of Colonel Douglas
states, "as it is a waste of time and
money to continue the present practice."
The cost of summoning witnesses in the
308 cases considered was approximately
$1,521, of which about $06 represents the
cost in the cases indicted, besides the loss
of time to the witnesses,
The grand Jury for the January term of
the court, who were selected some time
ago, have been summoned for today.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.