No Room For A Boy At Cheltenham
William Evans, an eight-year-old col-
ored boy, was committed to the House of
Reformation for Colored Children, at Chel-
tenham, Prince George's county, yester-
day, by Justice Wamsley at the central
police station, and when taken there those
in charge of the institution refused to ad-
mit him, claiming they had no room for
the boy. He was brought back and will
probably be sent to some other institu-
tion.
The boy was charged with grabbing a
pocketbook containing $1.50 from Mrs. Cath-
arine Kramer, No. 1309 Holbrook street, in
Belair market Saturday night. On account
of his age this charge was dropped, with
the understanding that he be sent to a re-
formatory institution.
He Has No Authority To Collect Money.
A well-dressed young man called at the
home of Mrs. John M. Adams, No. 2112
Maryland avenue, Saturday morning, and
represented himself as authorized to make
collections for Rev. William E. Bartlett,
pastor of St. Ann's Catholic Church, York
road. He asked for a small sum of money,
but was not given it. The man is sup-
posed to be the one who called at ex-
Mayor Hooper's home, No. 2201 Maryland
avenue, recently, as reported in THE
SUN Saturday last. Father Bartlett vis-
ited police headquarters last week and said
no person had authority to make collec-
tions in his name or that of the church.
Injured In A Runaway.
A horse attached to a buggy belonging
to Dr. D. Z. Dunnott, resident physician
of the Union Protestant Infirmary, Divi-
sion and Mosher streets, became unman-
ageable Saturday on Lafayette avenue and
ran away. William Bradford, who was in
the buggy with Dr. Dunnott, tried to get
out the back and fell to the ground. He
was cut deeply over the left eye and at-
tended by Dr. J. G. Huck, 647 West La-
fayette avenue. The horse was stopped
near McCulloh street. Dr. Dunnott was
not hurt.
Business Troub'es.
Wolf & Strauss, manufacturers of men's
clothing at 24 West Baltimore street,
made an assignment for the benefit of
creditors Saturday to Louis N. Frank,
trustee. The bond was for $15.000. Samuel
Wolf and Isaac Strauss are the members
of the firm.
George S. Kirkley, trading as the Union
Hardware Company at 1405 North Charles
street, also made an assignment for the
benefit of creditors. Meredith Jauvier,
trustee, bonded for $6.000.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.