HOUSE OF REFORMATION
Grand Jury Visits The Institution For
Colored Boys At Cheltenham,
Prince George's County.
The grand jury of Baltimore spent the
day yesterday inspecting the buildings and
grounds of the Colored House of Reforma-
tion, at Cheltenham, Prince George's coun-
ty, Md., and studying the working of that
Institution. They left Union Station at 7
o'clock in the morning and returned in
the evening. In consequence of the trip
no business session of the jury was held.
A larger number of grand jurors made
the trip than on any similar occasion pre-
viously. The grand jurors present were
Thomas B. Gambel, assistant foreman;
Henry C. Royston, Dr. Francis G. Con-
nolly, Leon Seliger, Thomas W. Morse,
Ernst Schmeisser, John R. Young, colored,
Michael P. Caughey, Wm. Grecht, Wm.
Klingelhofer, Thomas S. Clark, Frank
Nolen, Wm. H. Ferris, Reuben Jandorf,
Frederick W. Decker, Jr., Charles W.
Stockett, Marion H. Ould and Ambrose M.
Emory.
They were accompanied by Mr. Henry J.
Broening, clerk of the Criminal Court, and
Messrs. Edward Stabler and Joseph J.
Janney, of the board of managers of the
Institution.
A thorough inspection was made of the
buildings and grounds. Since the visit of
the last grand jury the power house has
been completed, and the boys have been
organized into a fire brigade. An exhibi-
tion of the brigade showed that only two
minutes and a quarter is required to have
a large stream of water playing on any
of the buildings.
The boys were assembled on the lawn,
where they sang a number of hymns and
were addressed by the visitors. Mr.
Nathan Thompson, superintendent of the
institution, entertained the visitors at din-
ner. Everything was found in excellent
condition and the grand jurors praised
the management of the institution. John
R. Young, the colored member of the
grand jury, addressed the boys, and said
they have advantages not enjoyed by him
when he was a boy, and he had no idea
before his visit that such an excellent in-
stitution for his race existed in Maryland.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.