FALSE ALARMS OF FIRE
Two Colored Boys Cause The Depart-
ment A Great Deal Of
Annoyance.
Alfred Lee, colored, aged eleven years,
702 Vincent alley, was arrested yesterday
afternoon charged with turning in two
false alarms of fire. The charges were
dismissed, and with the consent of his
mother, Justice Smith committed him to
the House of Reformation for Colored
Children at Cheltenham. July 23 the
boy was arrested on a similar charge,
which two days ago was dismissed by the
grand jury because of his youthfulness.
Yesterday, about 1 o'clock, he and an-
other boy, a trifle older, were seen run-
ning along Bolton street, and at the
corner of Laurens street Lee dellberately
climbed the pole, broke the glass in the
aların box, took out the key and turned
in the alarm from box 356. The boys
ran off and in a few minutes engines Nos.
7, 13 and 8, No. 4 hook and ladder wagon
and No. 2 chemical engine responded, only
to find that there was not a sign of smoke
In the neighborhood. The firemen started
back and only No. 13 engine and No. 4
truck had reached their houses, when an
alarm from Box 376, Eutaw place and
Roberts street, came in. The engines at
once responded, to find another false
alarm.
Mr. A. Roszell Cathcart, president of the
fire board, said last night: "This is a
serious thing, this turning in of fase
alarms. Every time a box is pulled we
take chances of killing men, of injuring
our horses and breaking our apparatus.
We have appreciated the fact that when
the fire department is wanted it 15
wanted quickly, and have tried το
give the public every facility for
getting an alarm into us in the short-
est possible time. That is the reason we
arranged the boxes as they are, with the
key in reach of every one. If this thing
is to continue, however, it will force us
to close the boxes again and take these fa-
cilities away. We wanted to make an ex-
ample of this case, as the boy has dore
the thing before, and the only way in
which it can be kept from being repeated
is by showing the offenders that they will
get a heavy penalty. The extreme penalty
is one year in jail and a fine of $100."