A NEW REFORMATORY
The Grand Jury Recommends
A MANUAL TRAINING FARM
For Youthful Criminals.
Instruction In Agricultural And
Other Employments.
The Opinion Is Expressed That The
Police Have The Power To Bring
Sunday Liquor Law Violators To
Justice-Warden Weyler's Admin-
istration Highly Commended.
The grand jurors for the January term
completed their labors yesterday and
after submitting the customary reports,
were discharged with the thanks of the
court. Mr. Wm. H. Lytle, foreman, was
presented by his fellow-jurors a silver-
mounted gavel and complimentary resolu-
tions. The gavel is the one used by Mr.
Lytle during the term. It was handsomely
ornamented and appropriately inscribed
for presentation. The grand jurors for
the May term have been summoned for
Monday, when the term begins.
The retiring grand jury heard 1,556
cases, of which 1,068 were presented and
488 dismissed. There were 413 larceny
cases heard, of which 302 were presented.
Foreman Lytle in his report calls atten-
tion to the large proportion of larceny
cases, and states that this grade of crime
is "undoubtedly encouraged by the facili-
ties afforded rogues in disposing of stolen
property at second-hand stores." It is
suggested in the report "that stores of
this kind be required by law to furnish to
the police every morning a description of
the articles bought by them during the
preceding twenty-four hours, together
with the names and descriptions of the
persons from whom they received the
goods. This would not only facilitate the
recovery of stolen goods, but lead to the
speedy apprehension of thieves."
The Liquor Law.
The experience of the grand jury with
regard to Sunday liquor selling was the
same as that of previous grand juries. At
the request of the grand jury raids were
made on the most notorious places by offl-
cers in citizen's clothes. "That this pro-
ceeding had a salutary effect," the report
states, "is shown by the fact that the re-
ported violations during the latter part
of our term, after the raids had been
made, greatly decreased, indicating a dis-
position on the part of saloon-keepers to
obey the law, and establishing the fact
that a vigorous prosecution is the most
effective means of securing obedience. It
must, however, in justice. be stated that
a majority of the licensed dealers con-
form to the law regulating the sale of
liquor, and deprecate the acts of those
who are unmindful of and persistently
violate its provisions.
cus-
"The defects in the law regulating the
sale of liquor doubtless make it difficult
to detect and punish offenders, yet the
grand jury is convinced that the
todians of the public safety have the
power to bring every violator of this par-
ticular law to the bar of justice. A short
time ago, by earnest and persistent efforts,
they succeeded in measurably breaking
up the policy shops and gambling dens of
the city. The same degree of zeal and
earnestness, we believe, would insure a
stricter observance of the Sunday liquor
law."
Reformatory Recommended.
Continuing. the report is as follows:
"The grand jury have been seriously
impressed with the Increasing number of
youthful criminals, the most of whom are
colored. This increase may be accounted
for by heredity, but more by environment.
Many of these youths are the children of
dissolute or idle parents, and have never
been subjected to the slightest restraint
at home-indeed, they are often without
even the semblance of a home. In some
cases they are required and expected by
their parents to aid by theft in support-
ing the family. With such surroundings
it could scarcely be expected that any-
thing but a criminal product would be
evolved. An increase of larceny by
minors is the ultimate result.
near
The Institutions suitable for the incar-
ceration of juvenile offenders convicted
of crimes punishable by imprisonment are
over-crowded, and it would be manifestly
detrimental to mingle them with older
prisohers. Many of these youths. under
more favorable environment and with
proper moral and physical training, might
be reclaimed. We, therefore, recommend
the establishment of a Manual Training
Reformatory, located
the city,
where the inmates could be taught use-
ful trades or occupations that would
enable them to earn an honest livelihood
when discharged. Such an institution
should have around it sufficient good
land, where the youths could be in-
structed in agriculture and other employ-
ments. Under proper management it
could be made nearly, if not altogether,
self-supporting. The youths might re-
ceive not only a plain education, but be
taught habits of industry and morality
calculated to fit them for lives of future
usefulness."
Warden Weyler Commended.
The report commends the management of
Warden John F. Weyler, of the peniten-
tiary, and praises the police and detective
departments. In conclusion a cumulative
sentence is recommended for habitual of-
fenders.
Accompanying the report were the usual
reports of the committees appointed to
visit the various reformatory and penal in-
stitutions. These institutions were all
found to be well conducted.
Warden John F. Weyler, of the peniten-
tiary, is firm and unyielding in dealing
with the convicts, the committee on the
penitentlary state in their report, but from
the day of entrance the prisoners are
treated as fellow creatures who, though
erring, are capable of reformation. The
admirable discipline in the prison is shown
by the fact that only one or two guards
are necessary to preserve order and secure
diligence in the large workshops, in each
of which a hundred or more men are em-
ployed. The unselfish and philanthropic
efforts of the Prisoners' Aid Association,
of which Mr. Goldsborough S. Griffith is
president, has had an ameliorating and
beneficent influence upon the prisoners, the
committee states.. It is regretted by the
committee that facilities for educating the
prisoners are wanting. This will be reme-
died when the new penitentiary is occu-
pled, about September 1, this year. The
excess of revenue over expenditures was
$29.180.71 for the year ended December 31,
1898. The number of prisoners on the
30th of last April was 894, comprising 370
white men, 475 colored men, & white
women and 44 colored women. For the
new penitentiary $1,083,724.47 has been re-
ceived and $1.007.116.47 expended, leaving
a balance of $76,608.
The committee unqualifiedly commend
the excellent management of Warden Wey-
ler. "The penitentiary under his manage-
ment," the report states, "has become the
best in the United States, and this is due
to his energy, tact and wisdom, seconded
by an able and efficient board of direc-
tors."
L.
Messrs. F. W. Baker, Emanuel Green-
baum, Alexander H. Price, Edwin
Turnbull and Horace Noble composed the
committee.
The City Jail.
The committee on the jail commend War-
den Hall for his excellent management
and Dr. James C. Clark for the faithful
performance of his duties as jail physl-
cian. Improvements suggested by the com-
mittee are better closets, ventilating equip-
ment in the towers at the north end of the
jail, an additional story over the present
hospital, and separate accommodations for
boys committed to jail.
Female House Of Refuge.
The sale of the present buildings on
Female House of Refuge is recommended
children committed to the institution to
get rid of a burden, or are incompetent
to raise them in a proper manner. The
mere fact that out of a total of 210 boys
60 are between the ages of six and thir-
teen ought to convince the public of this
fact, and also that the boys cannot be so
very bad." The committee recommends
the establishment of trade schools at the
institution and a fire escape for the junior
department. "Two recent fires at the in-
stitution," the report states in conclusion,
"established the fact that there are not
sufficient water or fire plugs to protect
the buildings and lives of the inmates."
Cheltenham Reformatory.
Appropriations of $500 for improving the
bathing facilities, and $4,000 for an exten-
sion of the steam heating at the Colored
House of Reformation at Cheltenham are
recommended in the report of the com-
mittee on that institution.
Bayview Asylum.'
The committee on Bayview reported that
under the present management the insti-
tution is kept in splendid condition. The
thanks of the community, the report states,
are due the ladies' society of which Mrs.
George C. Wilkins is president for their
interest in the female inmates. New boil-
ers, a new laundry, cylinder fire escapes
and additional space for the storage of
coal are recommended for the institution.
Spring Grove And Mount Hope.
Spring Grove was reported by the com-
mittee to be a model insane asylum. "Its
management reflects credit upon those in
charge," the report states, "and it wel!
deserves the fostering care of the State."
Of the 898 Mount Hope inmates last year
256 were found by the committee to be
dependent upon the public care.
St. Mary's Industrial School.
St. Mary's Industrial School is com-
mended by the committee as an ideal
home for boys. The committee suggests
that members of the City Council and
State government visit the institution from
time to time, to become acquainted with
its workings and how necessary liberal ap-
propriations are for its support.
Public Accounts.
The committee on public accounts state
in their report that they visited the offices
of the city commissioner, comptroller and
register and clerks of the various courts.
Although the committee had free access to
the books and were extended every cour-
tesy, they found it Impossible to make a
proper examination. They recommend
that the Legislature empower the Gov-
ernor to appoint a State auditor, with
assistants, to examine into and report
each year upon the workings and condi-
tion of all public offices.
Exits From Buildings.
The committee on exits of public build-
Ings recommended in their report that
more stringent laws on the subject be
passed. They examined many of the pub-
lic buildings in the city and found the pro-
visions made for exit to be fairly good.
The fire escape recently erected at the
General German Orphan Asylum, on Ais-
quith street, Is commended.
Carey and Baker streets occupied by the
by the committee on that institution. In
the opinion of that committee the insti-
tution should be removed "further out of
the city." Miss Martha D. Stuart. super-
intendent, and her assistants are com-
mended by the committee.
House Of Correction.
The management of the House of Cor-
rection seemed to the committee on that
institution to be in entirely competent
hands. The committee recommends the
erection of a hospital building and an im-
provement in the sanitary conditions of
the institution. Many of the inmates
seemed to belong to the deficient class, and
the committee recommended that the su-
perintendent be empowered to return the
insane and feeble-minded to the cities and
counties from which they were recelved.
House Of Refuge.
In the report on the House of Refuge the
committee say: "Parents often have their
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.