JOHN BERRY ON TRIAL
Miss Annie Clark Testifies To
The Killing Of Her Sis-
ter Near Bowie.
THE CONFESSION ADMITTED
Admissions Of Guilt Detailed
By Several Witnesses.
The State Concludes Its Testimony
And Asks For A Verdict Of Murder
In The First Degree-The Defense
Will Endeavor Today To Show A
Good Character For The Accused.
John Berry, colored, was Identified by
Miss Annie Clark in the Criminal Court
yesterday as the person who killed her sis-
ter and attempted to kill ber on Saturday
evening, March 18, 1899. The crime was
commitied at the home of the Misses
Clark, near Bowie, Prince George's county,
MC., where Berry was employed as a ser
vant.
Miss Clark was the last witness for the
State in Berry's trial on the charge of
murder. A number of the witnesses who
proceded her testified that they heard
Berry confess he had committed the crime.
There were, besides, mute but strong wit-
nesses in two sticks of firewood, a blood-
stained suit of old clothes and an open-
faced brass watch which were shown to
the jury. The sticks of wood were used in
the brutal attack on the two ladies. They
were dyed red with blood in some places
and had a number of long hairs adhering
to them. The clothes, it was testified,
were worn by Berry while making the
murderous assault. Berry also owned the
watch, which ich was found under Miss
Amanda Clark's body.
Miss Clark's Testimony.
Miss Annie Clark was dressed in deep
mourning. A heavy black vell, which she
did not raise in court, covered her face
and concealed the wounds inflicted in the
brutal attack upon her. There was a care-
ful avoidance during ber examination of
any reference to the alleged attempted
felonius assault upon her.
Until called to testify Miss Clark was
seated in the private office of Mr. Henry
J. Broening, clerk of the court. When
wanted as a witness she was escorted
into the courtroom by her brother,
Mr. Crittenton C. C. Clark, and Mrs. Ma
lone, matron. She was given a chair close
to the jury and within arm's length of
Berry, but she spoke in so low a tone that
what she said was heard with difficulty
by those closest to her. When asked if
she saw Berry in the courtroom, she
looked across the table and pointed him
out. "John Berry did it. There he is,"
she said.
"My sister and I were sitting at the
table a few minutes after 7 o'clock," Miss
Clark said, "and were nearly through sup-
per, when Berry came in as usual. First
he struck me on the top of the head with
a heavy plece of oak wood, and then he
struck my sister. We had no power to
help ourselves. I held my hands over my
sister and she held her hands over me
to keep him from hitting us. We were
begging him not to hurt us and screaming
all the time. When my sister was struck
the last blow she said, 'I'm gonel Meroy,
Jesus!" My sister never spoke another
word after that.
The Prisoner's Appearance.
Berry is a mulatto of a light yellow
color, of medium height and about nine-
teen years old, He was born in Frederick
city and was sent to the House of Refor
mation at Cheltenham by his grand-
mother, who charged him with being in-
corrigible and stealing money from her.
He had been at Cheltenham six years
when taken out by Miss Amanda Clark,
who wanted a boy to work about the
house. At the time of the murder be had
been with the Misses Clark about two
years. In court yesterday he was poorly
dressed, but appeared to have been well
fed. He wore an old sult of dark clothes
and canvas shoes without stockings. He
is apparently of a sullen disposition. His
black eyes gleamed through partly closed
lids, while he listened with pouting lips
to the testimony against him.
"Berry was brought before me after-
ward and I identified him. After his at-
tack on us I heard him go through all the
rooms in the house. I called to him when
he was in the next room to where we were
and asked him to go for a doctor, I also
asked him to put pillows under our heads
and throw something over me, as I was
cold. I swore to him I wouldn't teil on
him. He compelled me to make the sign
of the cross, and said he would go for a
doctor after he had changed his clothes.
That was the best way out, he said, as
they would soon get him if he went away.
I told him to stop at my brother's while
he was out."
The Indictment against Berry was found
by the grand jury of Prince George's
county. He was taken to Upper Marl-
boro' to be tried on April 10, but made
affidavit that he could not secure a fair
and impartial trial in Prince George's
county. His case was then removed to
Baltimore for trial, C. C. Magruder and
Charles H. Stanley being assigned by the
court to defend him.
Miss Clark was on the witness stand only
ifteen minutes. She was not cross-exam-
ined by the defense.
When Berry was arraigned yesterday he
pleaded not guilty and sald he had em-
ployed two colored sttorneys to defend
him. One, he said, was a man named
Johnson, of Washington, and the other
Harry S. Cummings, of Baltimore.
Messrs, Magruder and Stanley said they
were willing to retire from the case if
Berry had employed counsel.
Berry's Confession Admitted.
A strong effort was made to exclude as
evidence the confession made by Berry,
but it falled. The witnesses to whom the
confession was made were examined to
ascertain if the confession had been made
under threats or promises of reward. All
said the confession was made voluntarily,
and Judge Wright ruled that it was ad-
missible. During this preliminary exami-
nation Berry was called to the stand.
"Constable Porter," he said, "took me to
Thomas Wells' saloon at Bowie. While
there a man I don't know asked me if I
did it. I told him no. He put his hand in
the constable's pocket and said if I didn't
say I did it he would shoot me. The man
was stout and red-faced. I made a state-
ment before the coroner's jury because I
was afraid they would kill me. The man
in Wells' saloon was the only one who
made threats. I told the colored man Fair-
fax that I did it and that's all."
"If counsel would come in and say they
would try the ease you could withdraw,"
Judge Wright said to the attorneys for
the defense. "The interests of the ac-
cused shall be protected. It does not put
you in a bad position."
Berry said he would recognize the man
he referred to if he saw him. He was al-
lowed to walk about the courtroom for the
purpose of picking him out, but said he
could not find him. His statement was de-
nied by Constable Porter.
The Jury.
The trial then proceeded. Mr. Cum-
mings came into court later and said he
had no connection with the case and had
not been employed to defend Berry.
At half-past one o'clock the jury had
been selected and Deputy State's Attor-
ney William C. Smith began the opening
statement for the prosecution. Others en-
gaged in the prosecution are State's Attor-
ney Duffy and State's Attorney Roger Bel-
lis, of Prince George's county. Mr. Smith
made it plain that the State would ask a
verdict of murder in the first degree. No
opening statement was made by the de-
fense.
What Berry Told The Doctors.
Dr. Nelson A. Ryon, of Bowie, who was
called to attend the Misses Clark on the
night of March 18, was the first witness.
Dr. Ryon was summoned by Berry, who
said somebody had entered the house and
nearly killed the two ladies. Miss Aman-
da Clark had been dead about an hour
when Dr. Ryon reached the house, at 11
P. M. She had three frightful wounds on
her head, her skull being fractured at the
base and crushed on the left side. The
Doctor thought at the time that Miss An-
nie Clark was in a critical condition. She
had eight or ten wounds. Her upper lip
was cut open, some of her teeth were
knocked out and her face was scratched.
The following compose the jury as final-
ly selected, after a large number had been
excused on account of having formed an
opinion or possessing conscientious scru-
ples against capital punishment:
JOHN H. ULRICH, baker, 317 North Eden
strect.
J. MORTIMER JOHNSON, grseer, 1430 Hollins
strect.
REVERDY JOHNSON, flour dealer, 304 Spear's
wharf,
PETER SCHMIDT, baker, 1601 Saratoga street,
HENRY MUHLHAN, butcher, 2411 Fait avenue,
LOUIS BACHMAN, tailor, 677 West Baltimore
street.
GUSTAVE A. WIRTH, shoemaker, 519 Bloom
street.
CHARLES D. AMOS, carbuilder, 206 Carroll
street.
JOHN CAFFREY, tallow dealer, 231 Aisquith
street.
CHARLES A. LURMAN, lime dealer, 1061
Hillen street.
GEORGE A. BEIL, clothing cutter, 2231 Orleans
street.
WM. ROUSSEY, contractor and surveyor, 111
North Gilmor street.
The testimony for the defense will be
heard today. They have very few wit-
nesses, who were summoned from Chel-
tenham to testify as to Berry's good
character. There was a large crowd out-
side the courtroom anxious to be ad-
mitted, but Judge Wright ordered that
only those should be admitted who could
find seats. This made the courtroom more
comfortable than would otherwise have
been the case.
Dr. Ryon found the ladies lying on the
kitchen floor with pillows under their
heads and a sheet thrown over them. At
that time Berry was absent, having gone
after a priest. The sticks of firewood pro-
duced in court were also found by Dr.
Ryon.
On Sunday, March 19, Miss Annie Clark
told Berry in Dr. Ryan's presence that be
had committed the crime. Berry made no
remark at that time. The watch, Berry
said, belonged to him, and that it must
have been knocked from the wall, where
It was hanging.
"Berry said at the inquest," continued
Dr. Ryan, "that be committed the crime
and had planned it for three or four days.
He said he wanted money to go away. He
sald he attacked Miss Annie first and then
Miss Amanda, using a number of pieces of
stovewood. They knocked some of the
wood out of his hand. When he thought he
had killed them, he said, he searched the
house and found 93 cents. He changed bis
bloody clothes, he said, before going out.
Miss Anule swore she would not tell and
he had every confidence in her, but as it
had been found out, he said, he would tell
all about it."
Admissions To The Coroner.
Rufus Belt, a justice of the pence, living
near Bowie, acted as coroner and held an
Inquest over Miss Amanda Clark on Sun
day, March 19, at her home. Berry was at
the inquest and before the jury. He was
told that he need not say anything, but he
said he would make a statement. He com-
menced by saying, "They did not treat me
right. They treated be badly." Mr. Belt
asked him in what way the Misses Clark
had treated him badly and he replied:
""They quarreled with me about spilling
water on the floor and last summer about
breaking a culcken's legs."
Mr. Belt then inquired what was Berry's
motive, asking if be intended to felonious-
ly assault Miss Annie and burn the house.
An objection was made to this question,
but Judge Wright sald the evidence was
very clearly admissible. "Berry said,"
continued Mr. Belt, "that his first inten-
tion was to assault Miss Annie, but he
changed that, and that his chief motive
was to obtain money to go away with. He
belleved there was money in the house,"
Berry confessed the crime to him without
Constable Norman Porter testified that
any inducements being offered or threats
being made. Mr. Perter also heard the
confession before the coroner's jury and
went upstairs with Berry in the Clark
house to get the 93 cents and the bloods
clothes.
Sheriff Benjamin F. Roby, of Prince
George's county, took charge of Berry
on Sunday, March 10, and locked him up
in the jail at Upper Mariboro'. He was
present when Berry pointed out where
the bloody clothes and money were. After
the Inquest Berry told the sheriff be did
the killing, but, was sorry for it.
George M. Smith, foreman of the coro-
ner's jury, testified that he warned Berry
before he made the confession. "Berry
said the ladies quarreled with him," Mr.
Smith said, about his muddy shoes and
breaking a chicken's legs. He said he
attempted to assault Miss Annie after
going upstairs for money, but did not ac
complish his purpose, because she begged
him so hard not to."
These were all the witnesses for the
State and most of them were not cross-
examined,
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.