TYPHOID AT CHELTENHAM
Dr. Fulton Investigates The Epidemic,
Which He Says Has Not Been,
Checked.
At the request of Dr. W. H. Gibbons,
health officer for Prince George's county,
Dr. John S. Fulton visited the House of
Reformation for Colored Boys, at Chelten-
ham, yesterday. Several weeks ago ty-
phoid fever appeared among the prisoners,
and examinations of the various water sup-
plies were made by Prof. W. B. D. Pen-
niman, analyst to the State board of
health. As a result of these examinations
the managers were advised to take their
drinking water only from one spring
which was found to be pure.
Four condemned pumps were disman-
tled, but the boys continued to drink from
all of the three remaining supplies. The
progress of the disease has not been
checked.
There are now a dozen boys in the hos-
pital, eight of whom have typhoid fever,
two of them being dangerously ill. Sam-
ples of blood were brought to Baltimore
for examination by Dr. Stokes. No deaths
have so far occurred, nor has any sick-
ness appeared among the officers or their
families.
When asked about the unnecessary se-
vere punishments criticised by the
grand jury Dr. Fulton said that the disci-
pline was, so far as he could see, human.
One boy he saw carrying a fence post
back and forth in one of the paths. This
was said to be the ordinary penalty for
disturbing the peace in the dining room.
The other punishments are said to be loss
of supper for small offenses, and for other
sins penalties ranging from confinement in
a cell up to carrying the ball and chain.
The last is the penalty for persistent at-
tempts to escape.
Dr. Fulton indorses the recommenda-
tions of the grand jury. He says that the
chief needs of the institution at present
seem to be a better system of sewage
disposal and a better hospital. Most of
the buildings are furnished with dry box
closets, which are cleaned daily. The
administration building has water car-
riage of the cheapest and most Inadequate
sort. The water-carriage system should,
Dr. Fulton thinks, be applied to all the
buildings and all the sewage disposed of
by sub-surface irrigation.
There are bathing facilities in all the
buildings and the boys are obliged to
bathe at regular intervals. If the tubs
were replaced by rain baths the bathing
could be managed much more economie-
ally and the bathrooms would be much
cleaner, he said.
The present hospital is a small one-
story aftair and is now full. There is one
tuberculous patient now in the hospital
and his presence among convalescents
from typhoid exposes them to considerable
danger of infection. Dr. Fulton thinks
that a hospital is needed having a сарас-
ity of twenty-five beds, and that part of it
should be fitted up for the isolation of
Infectious cases.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.