KILLED BY A BOAR
A Boy At Cheltenham House Of Re-
formation Meets With A
Violent Death.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.]
CHELTENHAM, MD., Dec. 5.-Last Thurs-
day a boy committed to the House of Re-
formation for Colored Youth was at-
tacked and almost instantly killed by a
vicious boar. The boy had gone into the
pen where the animal was kept to get a
shovel, and the boar made a lunge at
him and bit him in the thigh. Its sharp
teeth made a fearful wound, lacerating the
muscles and severing the femoral vein and
artery. The boy's screams were heard by
employes of the Institution, but he died
from loss of blood before he could be car-
ried to the hospital. The boy was com-
mitted to the House of Reformation from
Somerset county. He was about sixteen
years old. The remains were buried at
the institution.
Superintendent Pyles said that the boy's
duty was to carry slops to the hogs, and
It was while he was engaged in this duty
that he entered the pen. Assistant
Farmer Curtin was nearby at the time,
but could not reach the boy in time to save
him. Dr. Hester, the physician of the in-
stitution, said that the boy's life could
not have been saved, as both the femoral
artery and femoral vein were severed.
Superintendent Nathan Thompson, in his
report to Mr. Janney, the secretary of the
institution, said that no one could be
blamed for the accident. It is thought
that the boy had been warned to keep out
of the pen.
A GOLDEN JUBILEE
Rev. Michael Miller To Celebrate His
Fiftieth Anniversary At St. Mary's
Church, Annapolis.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.]
ANNAPOLIS, Dec: 5.-At St. Mary's
Church, an the feast of the Immaculate
Conception, December S. the Rev. Michael
Miller will celebrate the fiftieth anniver-
sary of his religious profession as a Re-
demptorist. It is quite appropriate that
this jubilee should be celebrated in the
"Ancient City," as Father Miller was for
a number of years in his early priestly
life identified with the work of the
Catholic church in Annapolis, When he
took charge of the little flock of Catholics
more than forty years ago, the services
were held in the church built by Charles
Carroll of Carrollton, in 1830, where St.
Mary's Hall now stands. Father Miller
found this building too small for the grow-
ing congregation, and he determined to
build a new and more spacious church.
The building was begun in 1858 and the
large and beautiful St. Mary's Church, as
it now stands, except the tower, was soon
completed. Shortly after the building of
the church, Father Miller added the
spacious convent to the old Carroll Manor,
which was too small for the increasing
Redemptorist community. It is fitting
that the aged and now invalid priest
should celebrate his golden jubilee on the
spot where he labored so well for the ad-
vancement of religion.
HEN HAWKS IN BATTLE
They Were So Interested In Their Dis-
pute That They Allowed Them-
selves To Be Caught.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.)
EASTON, MD., Dec. J.-As George Flu-
harty was driving into Easton this morn-
ing from Oaklands farm he saw two large
birds in fierce combat in the public road.
They were two immense hen hawks, the
largest he had ever seen, and they were so
much engaged in their battle that the com-
ing of Mr. Fluharty did not disturb them
an instant. They were fighting with
claws, beaks and wings, and seemed to be
about equally matched. After watching
them fight a while Mr. Fluharty caught
and killed them both, and proudly exhib-
ited his trophies in town today. This is a
remarkable instance, as the hen hawk
is the shyest of our predatory birds, and it
is difficult to get within gunshot of one.
They are caught sometimes in steel traps
fastened on the tops of long poles set up
in open fields.
FIREMEN IN JAIL
Two Members Of A Frederick Company
Held To Bail On A Charge
Of Larceny.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.]
FREDERICK, MD., Dec. 5.-G. Hoskin
Morgan, John Grahe and Robert Phillips,
who were arrested Saturday, charged with
steaiing brass nozzles, couplings, etc.,
from the Junior Steam Fire Engine Com-
pany, were given a hearing before Mag-
istrate Biser this afternoon. The two lat-
ter were remanded to jail in default of
$500 bail, and Morgan was released on
bail for action of the February term of
court. Morgan is vice-president of the
company. At a meeting of the company
onight all three were expelled.