VISITORS AT CHELTENHAM
For
The House Of Reformation
Colored Boys Inspected By A
Party From The City.
The managers of the House of Reforma-
tion for Colored Boys, located at Chelten-
ham, H'rince George's county, gave an ex-
cursion to that place yesterday for the pur-
pose of inspecting the institution and
affording a number of the citizens of Bal-
timore an opportunity of seeing the meth-
ods by which its reformatory and philan-
thropic work was conducted.
A special car, bearing the managers and
Invited guests, besides a number of ladies,
left Union Station at 7.31 o'clock in the
morning and a quick trip was made to
Cheltenham. In the party were Messrs.
Skipwith Wilmer and B. M. Watts, repre-
senting the First and Second Branches of
the City Council; William Stinson, James
E. Hughes, Elisha H. Walker, ex-Mayor
Alcaeus Hooper, Judge J. J. Dobler, Mr.
Henry Duffy, Morris Soper, Lester H.
Latham, Warden Hall, of the city jall; Dr.
Brown, of the House of Refuge for Col-
ored Girls; Mr. Wright and Colonel Wil-
son, of Marlboro', Md.
The members of the board of managers
who were on the trip were Messrs. Frank
Woods, president; Edward Stabler, Jr.,
G. S. Griffith, T. Erskine Carson, Joseph
J. Janney, William E. Walton, F. Snowden
HIII, C. C. Magruder, Henry Reese and
Charles E. Coffin. Messrs. J. Harry Lee,
Charles Markell, James Doyle and Herbert
M. Brune, of the board, did not accompany
the party.
Some of the ladies present were Mrs.
Frank Woods, Mrs. James E. Hughes,
Mrs. Edward Stabler, Jr., Misses Eliza-
beth and Bertha Janney, Mrs. Henry
Reese, Miss Holt, Mrs. B. M. Watts, Mrs.
T. Erskine Carson and a number of young
ladies from the Woman's College.
!
Carriages met the party at the station
and took them to the institution, where
they were welcomed by Superintendent
Nathan Thompson. The boys, 275 in num-
ber, were gathered in the chapel and were
addressed by Mr. Wilmer, Mr. Hughes,
Mr. Hooper and Dr. Brown. Led by War-
den Hall and Mr. Latham, the boys sang
several hymns, and Miss Holt gave a reci-
tation. Then followed an inspection of the
buildings and the grounds, and a lunch
and the return to the city.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.