DAMAGE AT CHELTENHAM
Buildings Unroofed And Crops In-
jured By The Storm.
Mr. Joseph J. Janner, secretary of the
Board of Managers of the House of Ref-
ormation for Colored Boys at Cheltenham,
has received a letter and a telegram from
the superintendent giving particulars of
the damage caused by the recent storm.
The letter says that nearly all of the
buildings were more or less damaged, and
that at least $6,000 will have to be ex-
pended to restore them to their former
condition.
The main building, which stands in the
centre of the group, had nearly all of the
windows blown out, but was not other-
wise seriously damaged. Family Building
No. 1 had a part of the gable end blown
out, and the remaining five buildings were
either wholly or partly unroofed. Family
Building No. 5 had the gable wall blown
out down to the second floor. The tin roof
of the factory building. 40 by 60 feet, was
entirely torn off and carried a considerable
distance from the building. The straw
barrack was blown over, and the large
building used as a stable and a place for
the storage of fertilizers and farm ma-
chinery was badly damaged.
A large number of ornamental and shade
trees were uprooted, and much damage
was done to the growing crops. Three
hundred acres were planted in corn and
potatoes, and both crops were so badly
damaged by wind and hall that the yield
will be very small. Tin roofs, slates and
debris of all kinds litter the place, and
much time and labor will be required to
restore the place to its former condition.
A dispatch received yesterday morning
says that four of the dormitories are ex-
posed to the weather.
The plant at Cheltenham consists of a
main building, in which are located the
offices, dining rooms, kitchen, storage
rooms, etc., six family buildings, each of
two stories and a basement, a two-story
factory, boller house, farmers' dwelling,
large barn, frame hospital and several out-
houses and sheds. Nearly all of the build-
ings are of brick. The reformatory has
about 250 boys at present. The farm con-
tains 750 acres.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.