Forecast For Baltimore And Vicinity.
The United States weather bureau fore-
cast for today for Baltimore, Washington
and vicinity is for fair weather, with fresh
west to southwest winds.
Foreign Affairs.
A Panama dispatch says it is belleved
there that the Colombian government has
an agreement with the United States on
the subject of the Panama canal.
William T. Stead, who has returned to
London from Rome, says the Pope Is
ready to co-operate with the United States
In restoring order in the Philippines.
Mrs. Athalie Mills and Miss Kate Lyons,
who gave the Christian Science treatment
to Harold Frederic, In London, just before
his death, have been released from cus-
tody.
Hugues Marle Henri Fournier, formerly
French ambassador at Constantinople, is
dead.
The Austrian bark Drina, which sailed
from Rio Janeiro, foundered off the Bra-
zillan coast and nine sailors perished.
Spanish-American Situation.
The American and Spanish peace com-
missioners had a lively debate yesterday
at their joint session in Paris, at the end
of which they said progress was being
made toward a treaty.
Soon after the peace treaty is signed
Premier Sagasta will submit to the Queen
Regent the question of confidence In his
government.
Porto Ricans are dissatisfied at the pros-
pect that the establishment of a perma-
nent form of government for them will be
postponed until the next session of the
United States Congress.
At a luncheon given by Robert P. Porter
to prominent men at Santiago, twenty-one
of the twenty-five guests were found to be
in favor of annexing Cuba to the United
States.
The Spanish Trans-Atlantic Company
has chartered the North German Lloyd
steamers Darmstadt and Munchen to carry
Spanish troops from Cuba to Spain.
City And Suburban.
Mr. James G. Harwood, a young artist,
was found dead in bed in his house at
Arbutus, near Catonsville, in Baltimore
county, with a pistol wound in the head.
Justice Craig, of St. Denis, gave a certifi-
cate of suicide. Mr. Charles W. Segrave,
1219 North Charles street, brother-in-law
of Mr. Harwood, expresses the opinion
that the young man was murdered Mr.
Henry Taylor, formerly
well-known
business man of Baltimore, died at Los
Angeles, Cal.. of heart disease.
The First Branch, City Council, passed
a resolution of inquiry of City Solicitor
Semmes, whether it had authority to
grant permission to erect stormdoors and
barber poles. The Council will meet again
next Monday-A special dispatch to THE
SUN from Tampa, Fla., says Mayor Mal-
ster left that place for Baltimore last
night.
The Phoenix Club's opening dance of
the season attracted one of the most bril-
liant gatherings ever seen in the club-
house.
The Fifth Maryland Regiment returned
to the service of the State.
The fourth annual convention of the
Maryland State Suffrage Association was
held at Friends' Meeting House-The an-
nual meeting, dinner and election of of-
ficers of the Lumber Exchange took place.
An impostor is going about the city rep-
resenting himself as a soliciter for THE
SUN-Charles Schilling. John Miller, Win-
ter Holmes, Charles Leydecker, Harry
Thurlow, Edward Robinson and Joseph.
Miller, boys whose ages range from twelve
to sixteen years. were committed for
court on the charge of setting fire to a
number of small buildings in the south-
western annex=It is estimated that $100,-
000 damage was caused by Sunday's storm,
and mechanics are busy repairing prop-
erty.
Financial.
The demand for and strength in the
shares of the local trust companies was
the feature at the Baltimore Stock Ex-
change. In Wall street the early trading
in stocks waited on the President's mes-
sage, and the movement was sluggish, but
prices were firm. Interrupted telegraphic
communication also interfered with the
business. In the afternoon the bears at-
tacked the market, which, with extensive
profit taking, caused a sharp decline. Met-
ropolitan Street Railway directors in-
creased the dividend to 14 quarterly, plac-
ing the stock on a 7 per cent. annual basis.
Maryland And Delaware.
The funeral of the late Barnes Compton
took place at Laurel yesterday-The first
train over the Chesapeake Beach Road
from Hyattsville to Marlboro' was run=A
child of Illinois Riggin, at Snow Hill, ac-
cidentally killed himself with a pistol-A
colored boy at the Cheltenham House of
Reformation was killed by a boar There
was great damage from Monday's storm
in Talbot county and more or less dain-
age to buildings and fencing in many
countles At Havre de Grace James Hi'l
was badly wounded in an affray/with
Robert Robinson, both colored The Rev.
Michael Miller will celebrate his golden
jubilee at St. Mary's Church, Annapolis=
At Rockville Guy Barron is on trial upon
an indictment for the murder of W. II.
Keyworth at Bladensburg last July-A
verdict for $600 was given against Dr. C.
W. Reid, president of Washington Col-
lege, for frightening a horse and causing
a runaway while bleyeling.
A jury was secured and the taking of
evidence begun in the second trial of
Uulted States Senator Kenney at Wilming-
ton on the charge of aiding in embezzling
from the First National Bank of Dover.
National Affairs.
The closing session of the Fifty-fifth
Congress began yesterday-Secretary Gage
estimates that the expenses of the govern-
ment for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1900, will be $303,048,37S Colonel Lee,
chief quartermaster at Camp Thomas,
Chickamauga, testified before the war in-
vestigating commission that hospital tents
were misused by officers at Camp Thomas
Gen. Joseph Wheeler, through Represen-
tative Stallings, introduced a bill in the
House of Representatives extending the
thanks of Congress to Miss Helen Gould=
The United States minister to Mexico will
be raised to the rank of ambassador=
Lieut. Col. R. M. O. Reilly, chief surgeon,
and Lieutenant Weston will go to Jamaica
to make a thorough investigation of the
British method of caring for troops in
tropical climates The United States Su-
preme Court reversed the decision of the
Virginia Court of Appeals and held that
coupons issued under the act of the Vir-
ginia Legislature in 1871 were legal tender
for State taxes There will be a general
reorganization of fleets and assignments
of warships to the several stations. Ad-
miral Schley will probably command the
European squadron.
Virginia And West Virginia.
Close friends of Gen. Fitzhugh Lee state
that he will not be a candidate for the
United States Senate to succeed Senator
Martin Mrs. Alice Swain Hunter, a well-
known soprano singer, died in Richmond=
The State Liquor League of Virginia was
organized at Norfolk It is expected a spe-
cial term of the Circuit Court of Alex-
andria will be held in February to try the
Daingerfield will suit=The Rappahan-
nock river is fifteen feet above high tide
at Fredericksburg and is still rising-The
property known as Nomini ferry, in West-
moreland county, has been sold to Wil-
Ham Henage, of Washington, for $7,000-
Adjutant-General Appleton characterizes
as false the statement published in a
Wheeling paper that arrangements were
contemplated for the presence of a military
force at Charleston on the occasion of
the meeting of the West Virginia Legis-
lature L. P. Patterson, of Giles county,
Va., was stabbed to death in Keystone,
W. Va., by George M. Whittaker-At
Elkridge, W. Va., a., in a row over crap
shooting. Frank Wallace was killed and
James Purcell probabaly fatally shot.
New York.
Savings banks in the metropolis are said
to be about to reduce their rate of inter-
est from 4 to 31% per cent Frank Jay
Gould, youngest son of Jay Gould, be-
came of age yesterday and will receive
his inheritance of $10,000,000-Dr. Arthur
Beaumont, a dentist, from Alabama, com-
mitted suicide in his flat because of un-
paid bills.
The loss by fire and water in the sky-
scrapers on Broadway, New York, is now
estimated at about $500,000, and insurance
men are investigating with a view to a
probable raising of rates on supposed fire-
proof buildings.
Miscellaneous.
Mrs. Cordelia Botkin, who is charged
with the murder of Mrs. John P. Dunning,
of Dover, Del., by sending her poisoned
candy through the mails, was put on trial
in the California Superior Court.
The Tobacco Growers' League
formed in Lexington, Ky., to combat the
American Tobacco Company, of which the
operations were denounced.
The arst land court in the United States
for registering land titles under the Tor-
rens system met in Boston.
was
A design was selected by representatives
of the Royal Arcanum for a sword, which
is to be presented Admiral Schley, who
is a member of the order.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.