Boy Starved And Frozen.
The Catonsville police station was
crowded Saturday afternoon by indignant
colored people to hear evidence in the case
of Lewis Gray and Annie Marie Elizabeth
Henson, both colored, charged with stary-
ing and cruelly punishing Gray's eight-
year-old boy, Arthur. The boy, a mere
skeleton, with both feet so badly frozen
that he could not walk, was wrapped in a
blanket and carried from his uncle's home
to the station house. His condition caused
a decided sensation. Capt. George W. Par-
ker, of the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Children, who was interested in
the case, said he had rarely seen any one
in a more pitiful condition.
March 20 the boy was committed to the
House of Reformation for Colored Boys, at
Cheltenham, by Justice J. T. Brooks, of
Irvington, on the charge of incorrigibility,
preferred by his father. Constable Harry
McAleer started for the institution with
the prisoner Friday, but upon reaching
Baltimore found that he had missed the
train, and took the child to the home of
Arthur Stewart, his uncle, at Catonsville.
The boy was so weak from starvation that
when taken from the car he fell to the
ground exhausted. Dr. C. L. Mattfeldt
was called to attend the child, and the
arrest of his father and the Henson
woman, who lived with Gray, followed. It
was shown at the hearing that the child,
during the recent cold weather, when the
mercury was near zero, was compelled το
stay outdoors all day as punishment, and
when brought in at night was put to bed
without food. His feet were badly frost-
bitten, and were exhibited Saturday. All
flesh of the right heel was eaten away,
showing the bone, while large holes were
in the soles of his feet. His left foot was
also badly frozen, the bone being visible.
The accused were held for the May term
of court under $1,000 bail. They were un-
able to secure bail, and will be taken to
Towson jall today by Patrolman Doyle.
After the hearing the skeleton youth was
put on exhibition at the station house, and
those who were unable to gain admittance
to the room during the trial were allowed
to pass in and view the spectacle.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.