"FALSE EXPECTATIONS"
Rev. W. M. Alexander,
Colored,
Preaches On Duty Of His Race.
Rev. W. M. Alexander, pastor of Sharon
Baptist Church (colored), Presstman and
Carey streets, in his Sunday morning ser-
mon spoke plainly to his congregation on
the folly of false expectations. In part
The said:
"As a race of people we have spent too
much of our time and energy building on
sandy foundations. As citizens, as a rule,
we have voted, expecting the party for
whom we voted to make us more than it
is possible for the National or State Gov-
ernment to make a dependent people, the
masses of whom do not think for them-
selves. We must learn that the people
make parties and statesmen and that nei-
ther can do for any class of people what
the law of self help requires them to do
for themselves.
"The thing for the negio to do is to make
the most of opportunities at hand. If em-
ployed as laborer, fill your place so faith-
fully that your services cannot well be
dispensed with.
"Teach the youth by word and example
in the home how to work for their bread
Send them to the publhe schools and keep
them in attendance every day during the
term, if possible, because the day is near
at hand when persons who cannot read
and write will find it hard to get employ-
ment.
"As to the element of the race which
has educational advantages and strength
enough to help our weaker brethren, we
must reach out our hands to them and
bring them into our Christian and civic
cncles.
"We must also work with the white peo-
ple who are giving their time, money and
thought to help us to help ourselves. I
have been reading the reports of the Mary-
land Sunday-School Union, the charity or-
ganization society, House of Reformation
at Cheltenham, for colored boys in
this State, and am gratified to know so
many agencies are at work for the good
of our people. This boys' home is doing
a good work, and we ought to ask the
Legislature to increase its appropriation
so the Board of Managers can make needed
improvements."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.