THE HOUSE
No Local Option For Montgomery-
Trust Companies.
ANNAPOLIS, MD., March 29.-The follow-
ing bills were reported unfavorably and the
unfavorable reports adopted: The local
option bill for Montgomery county; to pay
to Samuel R. Owens, of Montgomery coun-
ty, money erroneously paid into the treas--
ury; to provide for the appointment of a
commission to examine into the work of
institutions receiving State aid (Senate);
to require oath that contracting parties
to mortgages make no secret agreement;
to authorize Caroline County Commission-
ers to borrow money to rebuild - Dover
bridge; to regulate the manufacture and
sale of lager beer; to provide for the ap-
pointment of a board of visitors to the An-
napolis jall; to permit officers to enter
premises wherein gaming is suspected; to
amend the laws relative to contracts with
telegraph and telephone companies; to reg-
ulate the charge for rental of telephones.
Among the House bills which were fa-
vorably reported were those to incorporate
the Western Maryland Trust Company; to
incorporate the City Real Estate Trust
Company; to incorporate the Southern Mu-
tual Life Insurance Company, and to incor-
porate the Investment Trust Company of
Baltimore City.
Among the Senate bills reported favor-
ably were the following, which were ad-
vanced to the third-reading file: To incor-
porate the Eastern Shore Trust Company;
the American Trust and Investment Com-
pany; the United Deposit and Fidelity
Company of Maryland; the Anne Arundel
and Baltimore Electric Railway Company;
the Farmers' Banking and Trust Company
of Montgomery County; the Consolidated
Trust and Finance Company; the Balti-
more Elks' Exposition and Social Session
Association; the Calvert Banking and De-
posit Company: the Southern Trust and
Deposit Company of Baltimore.
House Bills Passed.
The following House bills were passed: |
To incorporate the Tidewater Fire Insur-
ance Company of Cambridge; to provide
for the election of a Treasurer of Talbot
county; to amend the charter of the Great
Falls Power Company; to incorporate the
Maryland Sanitary Refrigerating, Venti-
lating and Heating Company; to incorpo-
rate the Baltimore Annual Conference of
the Colored Methodist Protestant Church;
to direct the Appeal Tax Court of Balti-
more not to issue building permits until
taxes on land have been paid; to incorpo-
rate the Patapsco Investment, Guarantee
Title and Trust Company; to amend the
game laws of Frederick; to sanction be-
quests of Willie F. Hooper, of Wicomico
county; to authorize the Police Commis-
sioners of Baltimore to pension Herman
Heimiller, William J. Lowdenslager, John
Davis, John F. Kelly, Ambrose A. Ryan,
Joseph S. Townsend, Louis F. Norris,
George W. Bailey, Manus A. Behrens, for-
merly policemen of Baltimore city; to pro-
vide for the incarceration of youthful con-
victs in city jail instead of the peniten-
tiary, in the discretion of the sentencing
judge: to incorporate the Dorchester Elec-
tric Light and Power Company; to appro-
priate $1,000 for the expenses of the com-
mission to establish boundary line between
Maryland and Virginia; to prohibit the
sale of liquor within 1% miles of Bethel
Church of God, in Carroll county; to pro-
vide for the payment of appearance fees
for attorneys at law in Baltimore county
in habeas corpus cases; to provide for the
election of Caroline County Commission-
ers; to permit wives to enter into business
copartnership with their husbands; to pro-
vide for tax levy and collection of taxes in
Rockville; to amend the Talbot fish laws
relative to crabs and terrapin; to amend
the charter of La Plata.
Charles county; to
amend the charter of the Continental
Trust Company; to permit Mayor and City
Council of Baltimore to appeal from the
decisions of Tax Commissioners to State
Comptroller and Treasurer; to provide for
a special fund for pensions by the Police
Commissioners of Baltimore city: to re-
fund to Calvin Satterfield $109.78 erro-
neously paid to treasury; to amend the fish
laws of Frederick county; to make it a
misdemeanor for any person other than an
attorney to accept fees as such; to permit
Easton to exchange land for an alley; to
amend the laws relative to sales in bulk;
to incorporate the Baltimore City and
County Railway, Electric Light and Im-
provement Company; to authorize Harford
County Commissioners to pension James
Bennington; to create a Board of Health
for Baltimore county; to refund to the
Emmitsburg Railway Company money
erroneously paid into the treasury.
Afternoon Session.
At the afternoon session the following
House bills were passed: To appropriate
$1,000 to the Veteran Firemen's Associa-
tion; to authorize Harford County Commis-
sioners to pension Samuel John Wesley;
to prohibit the sale of liquor at Ruxton
Station, Baltimore county; to give County
Commissioners of Garrett county author-
ity to appoint a jail warden: to incorporate
the Baltimore Elks' Exposition and Social
Session Association; to authorize the
State's Attorney of Frederick county to
file criminal information; to secure to the
Mercantile Library of Talbot a set of the
archives of Maryland; to prohibit the
shooting of wild fowl on the Great Chop-
tank river in Talbot county between May
1 and October 10; to lower the property
qualification of members of the Second
Branch of the City Council of Baltimore;
to provide for a peddler's license for Elk-
ton, Cecil county: to refund to William
Wood Cook, of Dorchester, money paid for
unused packer's license; to authorize Ha-
gerstown to extend Prospect street; to
amend the road laws of Wicomico; to
amend the charter and change the name of
the Potomac and Severn Electric Railway
Company; to amend the charter of the Na-
tional Park, Sandy Spring and Hyattsville
Railroad Company; to provide for a police
justice for Williamsport; to provide for a
bounty for the killing of wild animals In
Frederick county; to amend the game laws
of Caroline county; to encourage manu-
amend the game laws of Frederick county;
facturing industries at Hagerstown; to
to empower the Druid Ridge Cemetery
Company to acquire additional land; to ap-
propriate $8,000 for the improvement of
the House of Reformation for Colored Boys
at Cheltenham; to require life and health
insurance companies to have a surplus of
$100,000, which must be invested in safe
securities; to require all releases of mort-
gages to be preserved; to provide for the
issuance of a license to sell Intoxicating
liquors at the Cabin John Bridge Hotel,
Montgomery county; to make it a misde-
meanor for a person to gun upon the prem-
ises of another without permission.
The bill to authorize the attachment of
one-half of the wages of the debtor was de-
feated-20 to 40.
The bill to regulate the payment of wages
of employes of corporations was upon mo-
tion.of Mr. Waller laid upon the table.
The bill to check by making them crimi-
nal certain inequitable and illegal secret
payments was lost by a vote of 30 to 28.
Night Session.
The following House bills were passed:
To give wages of employes of railway com-
panies priority over other claims; to fix the
State tax for 1901 and 1902; the omnibus
Appropriation bills for the support of the
State government for 1001 and 1902; the
Omnibus Appropriation bill for charitable
institutions for the fiscal years 1901 and
1002; to perfect the State militia laws; to
amend the charter of the Hagerstown and
Frederick Railway Company; to incorpo-
rate the City Real Estate Company of
Baltimore; to authorize Baltimore city to
borrow $5,000,000 for paving streets; to ex-
empt estates of less than $500 value from
collateral inheritance tax; to require turn-
pike companies to place a light at toll
gates; to reapportion the State school tax;
to prohibit charge of toll for bicycles by
turnpike companies; to incorporate the
Baltimore Industrial Power and Railway
Company; to amend fish laws of Dorches-
ter county; to incorporate the Hagerstown
Fidelity Company; to amend the ejectment
laws; to require a residence of one year
before a liquor license may be issued to
persons in Annapolis; to amend act rela-
tive to the foreclosure of mortgages; to re-
quire that traction engines be accompanied
by_two men; to amend oyster laws of Dor-
chester county; to incorporate.
the People's
Trust Company; to authorize Harvey H.
Conway to construct a wharf in Great
Choptank river; to provide for analysis of
fertilizers; to permit owners of reversion-
ary interest in land sold for non-payment
of taxes to have privilege of purchase
within a year; to provide for scholarship
in Washington College at Chestertown: to
authorize the Comptroller to settle claims
of State against collectors.
The bill to amend the general fishing
laws was amended so as to exempt nearly
all the counties and was then laid on the
table indefinitely.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.