JOHN BERRY'S CRIME
Unreserved Confession Of The
Murderer Of Miss Clark
In Prince George's.
unlooked-for sets in, he has hopes of her
recovery. Miss Amanda's funeral will
take place at 10.30 o'clock Tuesday morn-
ing at White Marsh Church.
"Everything is quiet. The people seem
to be perfectly satisfied to let the law take
its course, and expect a speedy trial of
the murderer. There is considerable feel-
Ing over the statement that Berry wants
to be tried in Baltimore. If by any legal
SPEAKS ILL OF CHELTENHAM jugglery the sentence of capital pu punish-
ment should not follow after his cold-
blooded confession, threats are being made
He Says He Wants To Be Tried that in another such crime lynch law will
In Baltimore City.
Excuses Himself On Account Of His
Youth-Says He Is Only 15 Years
Old, But The Record Shows He Is
Between 18 And 10 Years Of Age-
Miss Annie Clark Improving.
John Berry, the young mulatto who bru-
tally murdered Miss Amanda Clark, near
Bowie, Prince George's county, Saturday
night, and attempted the life of her sister,
Miss Annie Clark, occupies cell No. 13 on
the western side of the southern tier of
cells in Baltimore city jail. This cell, No.
13, gives a shake to most prisoners who
occupy it, but either Berry is not supersti-
tious about the number 13 or he is ignorant
on the subject. He continues perfectly
calm. He detailed to a representative of
THE SUN who saw him in prison a full
story of his crime. In substance he cor-
roborated what was told of the tragedy
and his confession in THE SUN Monday
morning. He says he was fifteen years old
in February, though he appears five years
older. He was born in Frederick, Md., and
says his parents are dead and he does not
know if he has any relatives living. He
spent six years in Cheltenham Reforma-
tory School for Colored Boys, where he
was sent by his grandmother, who charged
him with being incorrigible and stealing
money from her. In color he is light
yellow. He is about five feet six inches
tall and weighs about 125 pounds. He has
straight black hair, mustache and side
whiskers, light in growth, but black in
color. He confessed to everything con-
nected with the awful crime without any
effort to conceal the slightest particular,
and in a manner as though he was only dis-
cussing Idle country gossip. He said:
His Story Of The Crime.
"Next month will be two years since
the Misses Clark took me out of Chelten-
ham. They told me I was only to do odd
jobs about the house and would be raised,
fed and clothed, but soon they had me do-
ing work on the farm the same as men
were doing. I never had any money to go
away with to have fun with other boys.
Nearly all the time I had to stay on the
farm, where there are 138 acres, no near
neighbors and no playthings to amuse me
when not working. Often I walked out in
the woods to amuse myself.
"Sometimes they scolded me for doing
things they did not want me to do and not
doing things they told me to do which I
had forgotten. This made me mad for
a while, but I soon got over it.
"Last Saturday morning I took some
water Into the house and spilled same on
the floor. Miss Amanda scolded me for it,
and also for bringing mud in on my shoes.
For some time I had thought of hurting
them for scolding me, but I never thought
of killing them. It was between 7 and 8
o'clock that night, when I was sitting back:
in a corner In the kitchen beside the stove,
that the thought come to me again to hurt
them and get even. They had finished
their supper and were getting mine ready.
Miss Annie was seated at the table, with
her back toward me, and Miss Amanda
was facing me. A piece of wood I had
brought in was too long for the stove and
was lying on the floor near me. I picked
ir up, went to the table and hit Miss Annie
on the head first. She jumped up and both
screamed. I struck her several more times
and she fell on the floor. Miss Amanda
came at me, screaming, and tried to get
the club away from me. I commenced on
her and she put her arm on her head,
when I struck it and she yelled. I had
broken it. I struck her until she fell, and
then beat her until I crushed her head in.
Both were lying on the floor, senseless.
"Then I went into their bedroom, next
to the kitchen, found a jewelry box under
the bed. In it were some bracelets, ear-
rings and other jewelry and 93 cents in
money. I took the money and left the
Jewelry.
"Then I was so worked up I did not
know what I was doing. I went back to
the kitchen, and, as Miss Annie attempted
to get up, I started to beat her again.
She begged me to stop. Then I started to
outrage her, and she was so weak I could
easily have done it, but she asked me to
stop, at the same tiine trying to push me
away, so I gave that up.
"She said she would give me $100 if I
would go for a doctor, and promised she
would never give me away. I made her
swear she would not say anything.
"I went to my room, on the second floor,
took off iny clothes, that were full of blood,
aud piled them together. I put on all clean
clothes, not my best. as I was in a hurry,
and went on a horse after Dr. M. A.Ryon.
I met Everett and James Clark, nephews
of the ladies, and told them to go to the
house quick, as some one had nearly killed
the ladies. When I left Miss Amanda was
breathing very hard, and when I got back
they told me she was dead. I then went
to White Marsh Catholic Church, about
three miles, and brought the priest back
with me.
"All the time I said some one else must
have beat the ladies. When I got back a
lor of people were at the house, and, know-
ing I had done the thing, I became badly
scared and was afraid to talk. Some men
asked me a lot of questions, but I was
afraid to confess then because I thought
they would kill me, and still said some
one else did it. But they found my bloody
clothes, and Miss Annie said I did it, so I
thought I had better confess. I do not
blame Miss Anule for telling after the
clothes were found.
"I did not want to kill them. I know
they hang people for killing others, but
I got so I did not know what I was doing.
I think if a man did it he ought to be
hung, but as I am a boy I do not think
they ought to hang me. I think they should
put me some place for fifty years, and I
know I would be better. No, I do not
want to go to penitentiary for life, but
I would be satisfied to go for fifty years.
"I ant glad I got away from home, be-
cause they would have killed me there. I
want to be tried here, too, as half the
people down there are relatives and friends
of the ladies, and if tried there some would
be on the jury and they would be sure to
hang me."
His Life At Cheltenha1.
Speaking of Cheltenham, Berry said:
"That is not a fit place to send boys. I
never knew anything about cursing or
swearing before I was sent there. All of
them do that there, and awful things take
place among the boys, the big ones making
the little ones do whatever they want. If
found out they are only locked up for
several days.
"At home" [speaking of the ladies' farm]
"I went to church and Sunday-school and
would have had my first communion at
White Marsh Church next month. I al-
ways liked to go to church. I never went
with any girls and did not know any very
well, because I nearly always stayed on
the farm."
Wants His Picture In The Sun.
Several photographers took Berry's pic-
ture yesterday, which he submitted to quite
willingly. Not knowing a SUN representa-
tive was present, he said:
"If my picture is to be printed in any
paper, I want it put in THE SUN. That is
the paper they get down home. The ladies
have been getting the WEEKLY SUN ever
since I have been there, and I want my
godfather, Basil Queen, colored, to see it
if it is printed and to have a paper. If
anything happens to me [referring
death] I want to send him a message.
to
Berry also said he owns two hogs that
are on the farm, but said: "I guess they
won't let me have them, now."
Of Unknown Parentage.
A dispatch to THE SUN from Frederick
says: "Berry is the adopted son of Mary
Berry, an aged colored woman, who lived
in Klinehardt's alley, near Fifth street, in
Frederick city, but who died in 1904. His
porentage is unknown, as he was taken
from Montevue Hospital for adoption when
very young by his foster mother. He was
committed to Cheltenham in 1891 by Jus-
tice Eckstein, being about nine years of
age, charged by Mary Berry, whose name
he had adopted, with robbing her of money
and being incorrigible. Mary Berry has a
son in Philadelphia, and a daughter at the
come first."
Charlestown navy yard, Boston. To the lat-
ter she willed her property when she died.
What The Governor Says.
Governor Lowndes said: "Judge Mer-
rick and the other officials of Prince
George's county deserve credit for the
manner in which they protected Berry,
who, but for their good judgment and dis-
cretion, might have been lynched by an
infuriated mob." The Governor strongly
condemns such crimes, but, of course, is
bound to discourage lynchings, and thinks
the law should always take its course in
dealing with criminals.
Miss Annie Clark's Condition.
A dispatch to THE SUN from Bowie says:
"Miss Annie Clarke is improving very
much. Dr. Ryan says-unless something
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.