UNPARALLELED CRIME
Double Murder Attempted By
A Young Negro In Prince
George's County.
TWO LADIES THE VICTIMS
One Killed With A Billet Of
Wood, The Other Fatally
Wounded.
Bloody Work Of John Berry, A
Servant Taken From Cheltenham
Reformatory And Employed By
The Misses Clark-Assaulted At
Their Supper Table-Life Of The
Prisoner Saved By Conveying Him
To Baltimore Jail.
[Special from a Staff Correspondent.]
BOWIE, MD., March 19.-John Berry, a
young negro, aged about nineteen years,
killed Miss Amanda Clark near Bowie, in
Prince George's county, Saturday night,
and at the same time beat into insensibil-
Ity and attempted to outrage Miss Annie
Clark, a younger sister of the lady he
killed. He also planned to set fire to the
house when the murder was committed,
but changed his mind, and went for as-
sistance, and subsequently confessed to all
the details of the shocking crime.
Scene Of The Murder.
The scene of the murder is about two
and a half miles south of Bowie, and a
more lonesome spot could not well be
imagined. The Misses Clark lived alone
on a farm on the road from Bowie to
White Marsh Church. Berry was secured
by Miss Amanda Clark about two years
ago from Cheltenham Reformatory School
for Colored Boys and was employed to as-
sist the two ladies about their house-
work. No one can tell just at what hour
the young negro commenced the assault,
but circumstances and events place the
hour at about 7 o'clock on Saturday even-
ing. While he has confessed the crime,
there are other evidences to corroborate
the story, which, in all its details, stamp
it as one of the most notable in the crim-
inal annals of Prince George's county and
its perpetrator to be one of the coolest
creatures in existence. There were no
witnesses to tell of what took place in the
little home, but there are many surround-
ings which spoke volumes in testimony
to the bloody and heartless nature of the
crime. In the kitchen, where the mur-
der took place, was found a little table,
on which had been placed the evening
meal, showing that the murderer made his
assault as the two ladies were at their
supper.
Killed At Supper.
Miss Annie, the younger woman, sat at
the head of the table with her back to a
kitchen door leading from the room into a
sunımer kitchen. It was through this door
that Berry entered the room and dealt the
first biow. He struck Miss Annie on the
top of the head with a billet of wood
two and a half feet long which had been
cut for the stove. The blow knocked her
from her chair to the floor. Miss Amanda,
the elder, was sitting with her side to the
door and did not see the blow delivered,
but when she raised her eyes they fell
upon Berry standing near her side with the
murderous club raised to strike her. Then
began a battle of life and death, to save
her sister and herself. In her efforts she
lost her own life, but was probably instru-
mental in saving the life of her sister.
Fighting For Life.
Berry attempted to strike Miss Amanda,
but she warded off the blow with her left
arm. The negro backed off and made a
second rush at the brave woman, who
stood between the brute and her fallen
sister. Again he raised the club, and as it
desconded she tried to parry the blow. The
brute exerted all his strength, and as the
bludgeon fell she attempted to shield her
head, and the blow fell with full force on
her left arın, breaking it at the wrist and
causing her to sink to the floor in terror
and pain. The brute then beat her over
the head, crushing in her skull and scat-
tering her brains and blood over the walls
of the little kitchen.
Preparing For Flight.
Daring all this time Miss Annie was ly-
ing in an unconscious condition on the
floor, and Berry thought she was dead.
He then ransacked the house and secured
95 cents in money, which had been re-
ceived by the ladies from the sale of eggs.
The murderer then went to his room, over
the kitchen, and packed his clothing in
a satchel, evidently preparing himself for
flight. He also went to one of the bed-
rooms in the front part of the house, and,
taking a straw mattress from a bed,
dragged it down stairs and struck
match, supposedly to set fire to the house
to cover up his crime.
Renewed Assault.
a
At this juncture Miss Annie revived, and
hearing the boy in the adjoining room
made outery, upon which Berry quickly
returned to the kitchen and began to
finish Miss Anule. He struck her a blow
in the face with a billet of firewood, cut-
ting through the end of her nose, through
both lips, through her chin and knocking
out her front teeth. He then set out to
compiete his devilish work by commit-
ting in outrage on the prostrate woman.
She, however, fought him off, but only
after he had torn her clothing from her
body.
After fighting until her strength was ex-
hausted, Miss Annie began to beg for her
life. She promised to give him a hundred
dollars and never to mention his name if he
would spare her. These offers seemed to
have some effect on him and he began to
question the woman as to the sincerity of
her promise to shield him.
Swearing On A Crucifix.
He left her and went upstairs for a small
crucifix which was used by the ladies in
their devotions. While she was lying by
the side of her dead sister, and almost in
death's throes herself, the brute placed the
crucifix on her blood-stained lips and said.
"You swear you will never tell who did
this?"
The answer was, "I do."
Not satisfied altogether with this form of
oath, the negro ran his hand into the bosom
of the lady's dress and, tearing a scapula
which she wore around her neck from its
cord, he placed it on her lips and made her
repeat the promise.
Going For The Doctor.
He then asked if she wanted anything;
if he should go for a doctor. She asked
him to do so, and he left the room, went
to the stable, where he procured a horse
and saddle, and started for Bowle. On the
way he stopped at the house of Mr. J. W.
Clark, a brother of the two victims. He
was met by Everett and James Clark,
nephews of the Misses Clark, to whom
Berry said: "You had better go over to
the house, as some one has gotten in
there and almost killed both the ladies."
The negro then rode off to Bowie, arriv-
ing at the home of Dr. M. A. Ryon, to
whom he told the same story and said:
"You are wanted at once and had better
go on horseback, as the roads are bad."
The negro himself rode back to the house
and put up his horse. When he reached
the house he was met by Everett and
James Clark, who had gone over from
their homes.
Going For The Priest.
They went into the house with the negro,
and Miss Annie said: "Some one go for
the priest."
"I will go for one," said Berry, and
again he went to the stable and rode off to
White Marsh Church, where he informed
one of the clergymen, and came back with
him. When he reached the house this
time Dr. Ryon had arrived and said Miss
Amanda had been dead about one and a
half hours, and that Miss Annie's condi-
tion was critical.
What The Nephews Saw.
Everett Clark and James Clark were the
first to arrive at the house after the mur-
der. They said: "When we entered the
kitchen we found our aunts lying on the
right side of the stove, from the door, and
covered with a quilt and sheet. Under
the head of each was a blood-soaked pil-
low. We were terrified at the sight. The
walls of the room looked like some one had
been killing hogs. Aunt Amanda was
nearest the stove and lying on her right
side, with her head doubled up under her.
Aunt Annie was lying on her back. The
furniture in the room was not upset, and
there was some fire in the stove. When
we heard Berry come back from Bowie
we met him and he repented the same
story of some one having come into the
house during his absence and killing the
ladies."
Dr. Ryen soon came and they took Miss.
Annie into an adjoining rooin.
What The Doctor Said.
Dr. Ryan said: "As soon as I saw Miss
Amanda I knew she was dead. On exam-
ining her I found that her skull had been
fractured. She had at least eight or nine
distinct wounds in her head and left hand
and arım. One particularly shocking
wound was made on the left temple, which
cracked the skull. This wound probably
caused her death. As soon as I had ex-
amined Miss Annie I asked her who did
the job. She did not answer. I then told
her that I knew. She asked, 'Who is it?"
I said that negro here. She answered 'Yes;
I am glad you have found out.'"
Preparing To Lynch.
By this time the news had spread. Many
persens came from miles around. All this
time Berry was taking a deep interest in
all that was going on. He said to those
present: "I wish I knew who did this
work. I would kill him." He never seemed
to think that suspicion and evidence had
fastened on himself.
The crowd, as soon as they were in-
formed of the part Berry had played, want-
ed to kill him on the spot. He was sent
three times from the house to a spring
near by for the purpose of lynching him,
but this was prevented by some of the
cooler heads.
Fixing The Crime On Berry.
Capt. George W. Smith, Martin Keough
and Harry Keough, of Bowie, arrived at
the house about midnight. They at once
set to work to get at the bottom of the
crime and began to ply Berry with ques-
tions. They soon had him tangled up, and
Constable Norman Porter placed him un-
der arrest. They took him to the bedside
of Miss Annie Clark and asked her if she
identified him. She waved her hand and
said. "I certainly do. Take him away."
Jury Of Inquest.
Sheriff Charles Roby was sent for, and
he reached the scene about 11 o'clock Sun-
day morning. He took charge of Berry,
while Justice Rufus Belt summoned the
following jury of inquest: George M.
Smith, foreman; Martin Keough, Edward
Bell, Harry Keough, Joseph Nicholson,
Richard Hardesty, Joseph W. Ryan,
Charles Seitz, M. E. Brady, Clifton C.
Jones, W. W. Phelps and F. B. Lueres.
Berry was called. He showed not the
slightest fear.
Foreman Smith told him that he was
not compelled to tell anything, but if he
wanted to make any statement he could
do so.
The prisoner was sullen and not in-
clined to talk. He was taken to the
kitchen and shown the face of his victim.
He looked with a steady gaze upon the
face of Miss Clark without showing a sin-
gle sign of remorse or fear.
Sheriff Roby took the prisoner to Bowie.
Just as they were leaving the house a pair
of bright handcuffs were slipped over his
wrists.
Effect Of Cold Steel.
At the sound of the click of the cuff
locks and the touch of the cold steel Berry
cringed, and he then wanted to talk. Lie
said he was not at the house, but had
gone to a store for some quinine and
found the women on his return. He
added: "When I saw them all bloody I
fainted and took a dose of quinine to
brace me up." He denied having changed
his clothing, but Martin Keough made a
search for the cast-off suit and found the
blood-soaked garments in a wooden chest
in a summer kitchen. When shown the
clothes Berry shut up like a clam.
A Teltale Watch.
While the hunt for the clothes was be-
ing made Mr. Harry Keough lifted up
one of the pillows which had been under
the lady's head and found a small brass
open-face watch, which was handed to
Berry, who claimed it. The face of the
watch was covered with blood, and at
the suggestion of some one the face was
cleaned off, and the watch had stopped
at 7.30 o'clock. This is about the hour
Berry is supposed to have completed his
work of slaughter.
A Full Confession.
At Bowle the prisoner was further ques-
tioned and said: "I will tell a colored man
about it." Bayliss Fairfax, colored, was
asked to talk with him. To Fairfax Berry
said: "I did it. I have Intended to do it
for several days, but could not get at them
right until Saturday. They scolded me
about coming into the house with muddy
boots, and they did not treat me right, so
I killed them."
This statement was heard by the officers,
and Berry was told to tell all he knew.
He said: "The ladies were at the sup-
per table and I was bringing stove wood
In the kitchen. I had an armful of wood,
and as I dropped it into the wood box one
of the pieces fell out of the box. I picked
it up, and as I did so I thought: "This is my
time, and this is the thing to do it with."
I turned around and struck Miss Annie on
the head. I supposed I had killed her, as
she fell stiff. Miss Amanda jumped up
from the table and grabbed the stick be-
fore I could strike her. She got it out of
my hand. I stooped down and got another
stick and made at her. Every time I would
strike at her she would ward off the blow.
This made me mad, and I got a chance and I
struck with all my might. She gave a groan
and fell by the side of Miss Annie. I struck
her sereral times in the head until I sup-
posed she was dead. I then went through
the house and got 95 cents, which I put in
a purse in my room. When I came back I
started to outrage Miss Annie and would
have done so if I had not taken another
thought, which said to me 'You have done
enough today.' Miss Annie swore on the
cross that she would not tell and would
give me $100 to go for a doctor. I got pil-
lows for them and suppose that my watch
fell out while I was putting their heads
on the pillows. After I covered them up
I got the horse and went for the doctor
and told the Clark boys."
Trouble Brewing.
While telling the story the negro never
changed countenance, but seemed to be re-
lating some every-day gossip. But the
crowd thought differently and Sheriff
Roby saw a storm coming. He telegraphed
for a special train, and started for Upper
Marlboro', and by this act saved the
wretch's neck, as preparations were being
made to Iynch him.
The Victims.
The Misses Clark were maiden ladies and
daughters of the late Joshua T. Clark,
who at one time was county commissioner
from Bowie district and had also served as
a justice of the peace. Miss Amanda Clark
was fifty-six years of age, while Miss An-
nie is forty years old. Both ladies are
highly spoken of in the community.
The Murderer.
John Berry gives his age as fifteen, but
he is at least four years older. He was
born in Frederick City and was sent to
Cheltenham by his grandmother, who
charged him with being incorrigible and
stealing money from her. Berry had been
at the reformatory six years when Miss
Amanda Clark went to the institution to
get a boy to work about the house. She
was impressed with Berry and took him
home with her, where he lived for two
years. Up to the present time the negro
has been well thought of by the neighbors
and conducted himself with propriety. In
color he is light yellow. He is about five
feet six inches tall and weighs about 125
pounds. He has straight black hair and
unusually bright eyes. Miss Amanda Clark
will be buried on Tuesday at White Marsh
Roman Catholic Church Cemetery.
Safe In Baltimore Jail.
Berry was taken to Upper Marlboro' on a
special train from Bowte about 3 o'clock
in the custody of Sheriff Robey. The mat-
ter was kept so quiet that it was not
known until this evening at 5.30 o'clock,
when the prisoner was put in a dayton
driven by William Ogle and Special Officer
George B. Merrick and taken to Washing-
ton and thence to jail in Baltimore city
for safe-keeping. The sheriff drcided upon
this after consultation with Judge George
C. Merrick, as it was feared he would be
lynched tonight or tomorrow night. The
prisoner reached Baltimore over the Balti-
more and Ohio Railroad at. 10.30 P. м.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.