matter. The new charter requires the
board to submit the contracts to the Board
of Awards and Estimates by the 1st of
October, so the matter will be taken up
again at a special meeting to be called this
month.
The following appointments, made by
Warden Doyle, were confirmed by the
board: H. H. Lavelle, of the Fifth ward,
hostler; John H. Fisher, Twelfth ward,
keeper. The Warden's report was read
and approved and the finance committee's
estimate of the expenses of the jail, which
are to be met in the year 1901, was up-
preved.
BAREFOOT WOMEN IN JAIL
Mr. Fait Favors Shoes On Moral
Grounds, But Board Said Not.
An effort was made last night at the
meeting of the Jall Board, held at the in-
stitution, to enforce the wearing of shoes
by the female inmates of the jail so long
as they remained in the Institution. Mr.
William Fait, who advocated the measure,
made a motion to have the matter investi-
gated. bat as there was no second to the
motion it was dropped.
Mr. Fait enthusiastically favored having
ail women in the jail shod in some manner
or other. He thought it was really dis-
gusting to see the white and the colored
won.en going around in their bare feet and
believed the wearing of shoes would have
a moral erect upon them. He did not think
runch, he said. of the refinement of any
woman whom he saw on the streets in her
bare feer, and thought it would add to the
refinement of those in the jail.
George W. Mowen said he believed the
jail was a place of punishment and hardly
thought it wonid do to treat the inmates
as if they were saints and angels. He
thought the inmates would return to the
jail as soon as they were discharged sim-
ply to get the shoes. Mr. Fait appealed
to Warden Doyle, who thought it a good
plan, but would add greatly to the ex-
penses, as the shoemakers in the jail had
more than they could do to provide shoes
for the inen, who had to have them be-
cause of the work they did.
"Most of the women who come here,"
said Mr. Doyle, "wear no shoes when they
enter, and others might as well be bare-
footed." Mr. Kernan suggested in jest
that the women be made to wear tights.
Mr. Thomas F. McNulty, who presided in
the absence of President Tippett, said that
If the plan were adopted the fall would
have to be enlarged to accommodate the
patrons.
Reports from special visiting commit-
tees were received on the Female House of
Refuge and the House of Reformation for
Colored Boys at Cheltenham. The former
Institution was reported in splendid order
and the committee highly complimented
the effective administration of Miss Martha
D. Stuart, the superintendent, at the same
time recommending an additional appro-
priation for the institution.
The Cheltenham institution was reported
us being well conducted, and a recommen
dation was made for an appropriation to
be used in putting in another boller to heat
the building to do away with some dan-
gerous stores.
A warm discussion ensued concerning
the rights of the board to make contracts
with such institutions for appropriations
for the year 1001, and, upon motion of
Mr. Mowen, a committee
committee, consisting of
Messrs: Mowen, Tracy and Falt, was ap-
pointed by Chairman McNulty to confer
with Mayor Hayes and ascertain exactly.
the rights and powers of the board in this.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.