DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
An Addition To The City's Noises-
A Policeman In Politics.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.]
WASHINGTON. July 20. - To add to the
other noises of a big city, the collectors of
coal ashes here are to sound a gong wher-
ever they go. At present the trolley cars
and hucksters do very well as noise pro-
ducers, with occasional obligatos on long
tin horns from the garbage collectors. The
milkmen formerly contributed gong num-
bers, but the residents rose up in wrath
and had them restrained. Now the gong
is to come into its own again, and many
are making ready for another agitation
against "unnecessary and nerve-racking
disturbances before our doors.""
While ill with malarial fever Mrs. Grant
A. McNutt, 32 years old, and the wife of a
clerk in the War Department, leaped from
the second-story window of her home, 1801
Oregon avenue. A friend who was in the
sick room caught her dress, but the gar-
ment parted and Mrs. McNutt fell 15 feet
to the pavement. When taken to the
Emergency Hospital it was learned she
had suffered no apparent injury except
the fracture of her wrist and several con-
tusions. Mr. McNutt was persuaded to have
her placed at St. Elizabeth's until the dan-
ger of further delirium shall have passed.
During the convention at Kansas City
the anti-Norris men presented in behalf
of their position an affidavit from Lieut.
John C. Daley, of the local police force.
Because of the deponent's official position
this paper is said to have carried great
weight. At any rate one of the Norris men
was suficiently moved by it to complain to
the Chief of Police. It is against the police
regulations for any patrolman or officer
to take part in any political meeting. So
the Chief of Police has called on Lieut.
Daley for an explanation and an Investiga-
tion is almost certain to follow.
A parade through the business portion
of the city Saturday marked the return to
Washington of the District National Guard.
For about 10 days the organization had
been encamped on the farm of John B.
Diamond, near Gaithersburg. The expe
rience is regarded as having been of great
practical value to the brigade, and a most
successful outing. Citizens of Gaithers-
burg have already Invited the men to re-
turn next year. Mr. Diamond has prof-
fered the use of his farm a second time,
and a committee has been formed to keep
the movement alive during the winter.
William Smith, George W. Bond, Wi-
liam Greenstreet and William Robinson, all
colored, are at the Fifth Precinct Station
on charges of having escaped from the
Cheltenham Reformatory. Word was re-
ceived here Saturday the boys had broken
loose Friday. They were captured near
Anacostin, walking about aimlessly.
Rev. Jullus E. Grammer, D. D., rector of
- Trinity Episcopal Church, Baltimore,
preached today at St. John's Church In
this city.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.