North Carolina Legislature.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltiinore Sun.]
RALEIGH, N. C., Jan. 14.-There was a
lengthy discussion in the State Senate to-
day on the bill to grant a blanket charter
to the Whitney Reduction Company, with
power to increase its capital stock to $10,-
000,000. A substitute was offered by the com-
mittee. The original bill gave the right to
condemn lands in towns or anywhere for
railways of any kind. The substitute passed
by a vote of 35 to 3.
Nearly all the long session of the House
was consumed in the discussion of a bill
increasing the Governor's salary from
$8,000 to $4,000. It passed by the close
vote of 55 to 52 and was ratified soon after.
It increases the salary of Governor Aycock,
who takes office tomorrow.
Newcastle Visits Philadelphia.
PHILADELPHIA, Jan. 14.-Henry Pelham
Archibald Pelham-Clinton, Duke of New-
castle, arrived here today en route to Flor-
ida, where he owns considerable property.
With the Duke came Editor Kelway, of
the Church Review, and Rev. Harry Wil-
son, rector of St. Augustin's Episcopal
Church, Stepney, England. The Duke pre-
sided at a public meeting tonight, at
which Editor Kelway spoke of the progress
of the Catholic party in England and the
Rev. Mr. Wilson explained the object of
the"Red House," an institution established
by the Catholic party to redeem the deni-
zens of London's slums. The three visitors
are looking into the question of establish-
ing an American edition of the Church Re-
view.
Another Clue In Riegel Case.
PHILADELPHIA, Jan. 14. - The police to-
day recovered broken pieces of the bottle
which is believed to have contained the.
poison administered to Rev. Father Riegel,
rector of the Church of the Presentation,
Cheltenham, who is alleged to have been
murdered and robbed here about 10 days
ago.
1
Among several persons under arrest is a
16-year-old boy known as "Kid" Hartman.
He Informed Coroner Dugan that after the
phial had been shattered he buried it In
the yard in the rear of the Eighth street
house. It was discovered, hidden beneath
a brick.