BOYS BEHAVE WELL
No Danger Of Shotgun Policy At
Cheltenham.
NEEDS OF THE INSTITUTION
Plans Of Superintendent Dorsey For
The Coming Year-Preparations
For Christmas Festivities.
A number of reports have reached THE
SUN to the effect that residents of the
neighborhood of the Colored House of Re-
formation, at Cheltenham, Prince George's
county, were in constant fear of intrusion
from the boys of the institution, and that
a "shotgun policy" might be necessary to
protect the property of the farmers from
the depredations of the boys.
A thorough investigation yesterday by a
reporter of THE SUN, who visited more than
a score of residents near the institution,
disclosed no such alarming state of affairs.
On the contrary, a number of residents of
the section stated that there was now little
or no cause of complaint against the boys,
with the exception of the stealing of a lit-
tle fruit in the season. Two or three years
ago, say the neighbors, the nuisance was
almost intolerable, but under the superin-
tendent who recently resigned, Mr. Nathan
Thompson, the boys were brought under
good control, and now give no trouble.
Should the boys take it into their heads
to become troublesome or even dangerous,
however, they might very easily do so, for
it would be hard to imagine a corrective in-
stitution with less evidence of restraint.
Escapes have been very frequent, for they
have been easy of accomplishment. An
instance of this occurred on December 2,
just before Mr. John E. Dorsey, the new
superintendent, took charge of the institu-
tion. James E. Goldsborough and John
Williams, allas John J. Gordon, struck and
knocked down Mr J. H. Forbes, a teacher,
as he unlocked the door of their dormitory
in the morning. The thing had been pre-
arranged, and the two, with two others in
the dormitory, made their escape. All four
were soon recaptured, however.
Superintendent Dorsey's Force.
There are now 237 boys in the institution
and to exercise supervision over them there
are a superintendent, an assistant superin.
tendent and four teachers. There are em-
ployed about the place a farmer, an en-
gineer, a baker and one or two other as-
sistants, but they are not charged with the
direct care of the boys. There are sup-
posed to be five teachers, but the place of
one of them is now vacant. There is not a
wall and not even a fence, except a barbed
wire one, about the place, and there is not
a guard about the institution, so that it is
not at all difficult for a boy to slip out of
line and disappear.
Mr. Dorsey, the superintendent, Is op-
posed to corporal punishment and is going
to try to control the boys by kindness. He
has devised a plan, which is to be put into
practice at the first of the year, by which
good conduct, tidiness and attention to les-
sons will sooner or later secure a boy his
parole or even discharge from the institu-
tion.
The boys are to be graded, from the sixth
up to the first, and above that there are
to be two "honor grades." The teachers
will report cach boy's conduct and atten-
tion to lessons to the superintendent every
morning, and the boys' standing will be
made up every month. They must reach
a certain standard in order to be advanced
from one grade to another.
For bad conduct or for trying to escape
they may be reduced one or two grades.
When a boy holds his place in the second
"honor grade" for a whole month by per-
fect conduct he will be eligible to be
paroled for a time under the supervision
of the Board of Trustees. The "roll of
honor boys" will have a special dining
room and will enjoy a somewhat choicer
grade of food. They wil lalso be allowed
to talk with each other at meal times.
Agricultural Plans.
The agricultural feature of the institu-
tion is to be further developed during the
coming year, and the cultivation of small
fruits, such as strawberries, raspberries,
currants, etc., will be taken up on a much
larger scale than heretofore. There are
now about 325 acres of land under cultiva-
tion by the boys, and various farm crops
are raised, including wheat, rye, grass, etc.
The land is being improved by the cultiva-
tion of peas, manuring and feeding. Last
year 375 bushels of black and mixed peas
were grown and gathered before the vines
were turned under to enrich the ground.
More
The crying need of the institution, say
those connected with it, is funds.
men are needed to take care of the boys.
An additional boiler is required to heat the
dormitories and to provide for baths in
them, since now the water has to be turned
off in cold weather to prevent it from
freezing. A system of drainage is badly
needed, as well as sufficient stock and im-
plements to work the farm.
The city this year cut down its appro-
priation from $12,000 to $6,000, greatly to
the dismay of the Cheltenham officials,
and one of the six schools had to be closed
for want of money to pay the teacher.
Preparing For Christmas.
The boys are now busily preparing for
Christmas, and all of the buildings are be-
ing trimmed with holly and greens. The
boys of one of the schools are rehearsing
a minstrel show and cakewalk, with which
they will entertain the inmates.
There
will be a Christmas tree for all the boys of
the institution and an extra turkey dinner.
Dr. Walter G. Cady, chief of the geodetic
survey station at Cheltenham, is taking a
great deal of Interest in the boys, and has
arranged with friends in his Providence
(R. I.) home to send a Christmas present
to each boy in the institution.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.