THE STATE CAPITAL
Official Test Of The Torpedo Bont
Dahlgren Next Week.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.)
ANNAPOLIS. MD.. March 21.-The orie!!
test of the torpedo boat Dahlgren will
take place at Barren Island, below the Pa-
tutent, next week.
The Government tug Hercules, Boatswain
St. Clare In charge, went down to overhan!
the course, which is one mile straight. The
Hercules and the torpedo boa: Talbot wi!!
zet as stake bats and the auxiliary cruiser
Gloucester will convey the members of the
beant to witness the trial trip. This is the
same course over which the Stocktoניה! ב
her trial last fall. It is expected that the
Dahlgren will exceed the speed of the stock-
ton, the Richmond shipbailders having Im-
קון נזיתתon the Dahlgra, which is ex
pected to make 30 knots.
In a civil suit tried before Justice Jon
N. Daris today Lucinda Sprizzs, colored,
won against the estate of Louisa Shjour-
dan, widow of Elsar A. Shjourdan, who
was a sailor and afterward a bookbinder at
the Naval Academy. The decision of the
nmagistrate was against the estate and the
colored woman will be allowed $25 and the
costs will be in her favor.
Prince George's Prisons.
| [Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.)
COLLEGE PARK, MD., March 21.-General
Agent Rer. W. C. Stoudenmire and G. S.
I Grittith, president of the Prisoners Ald
Association of Maryland, have visited the
jatis, almshonse and House of Reformation
for Coloree! Boys in Prince George's county.
They say that the county jall at Upper
Marlboro is in better condition than usual,
but that there ought to be a better water
supply for the jail and the courthouse
both. The House of Reformation for Col
ored Boys, at Cheltenham, is being admir-
ably conducted by Superintendent Thomp-
son and Assistant Superintendent Pyles,
The buiblings are ciema and comfortable
and the schools modern. The industry of
broom-makinbg is now on trial at the insti-
tution and the other Industries are such
as are most likely to give the Inmates a
trade by which they can earn an honest
living when they leave. Half of each day
is devoted to study and the other half in
the workshop. There are at present about
two hundred and seventy-four colored bors
at the instituten. There is apparently no
marked change in the manner in which the
altishouse is conducted and Mr. Ball is
I still the superintendent.
Maryland Agrlerltural College.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore sun.)
COLLEGE PARK. MD., March 21. - The
committee on examinations and promotions
at the Maryland Agricultural College met
today. They selected the dates for the
spring examinations, to be from March 20
!to April 4, inclusive. The Easter holidays
will begin at noon on April 4 and scholastic
cerroises will not be resumed again until
April 10 at noon. There are at present
It students at the college, which is said
!to be more than have been at this institu-
thon at this time of the year for a great
many years.
A preliminary contest will be held in the
Maryland Aerleultural College chapel on
Proday, March 20, for the purpose of select-
ing the two best Deen from among the
student body of this Institution to repre-
sont the Agricutural College in the regular
Intercollegiate oratorical contest to be held
at the college on April 26. Those who will
contest for the honor of representing their
future alma mater on that occasion are W.
Wilfred Cobey, C. V. Palmer. H. K. Brad-
ford and P. L. Peach, of Prince George's
.tyתמיר |
:
Bar Association At Denton.
| [Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.)
1 DENTON. MD.. March 21.-Members of the
ibar of this place will form an association
and establish a comprehensive law library
for the benefit of the members. It is pro-
posed to utilize all the private libraries of
the Denton atterness, without duplicating
the books, and purchase other books now
needed and new issues when thought ad-
visable. A large and very comfortable roona
In the courthouse has been secured and will
be titted up. Here the books will be kept.
The members will thus have access to a col-
lection not found outside the city.
1
Citizens of Preston are taking an active
Interest in the matter of street improve-
ments and are raising money to defray the
expense of the work.
Harry Dasher, who was very seriously
hurt in the boiler explosion near Ridgely
on Tuesday, is improving, and it is now
I thought he will recover.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.