DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Thought To Be "Willie" McCormick.
High School Cadets Drill.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.]
WASHINGTON, May 2. - A strange boy,
sald to have been wandering about Glen
Echo, Md., for the past few days, has been
reported to the police by residents of that
locality as possibly "Willie". McCormick,
the boy kidnapped from Highbridge, N. Y.
In all his intercourse with other persons
the boy is said to have been extremely reti-
cent. He is described as answering the
descriptionsent out by the McCormick
family.
Youthful Prisoners.
Washington's House of Detention last
night entertained three boys who were
passing through the city under the escort
of a United States marshal from North
Carolina. They are Fletcher Evans, col-
ored, aged 12 years, under sentence of one
year's imprisonment at Cheltenham, Md.,
for the theft of 50 cents; Bennett Holl-
man and Luther Hollman, convicted of dis-
tilling whisky without a license and un-
der sentence to serve a year in the local
Reform School.
High School Cadets Drill.
A great throng gathered about the White
House ellipse this afternoon to view the
annual review of the High School Cadet
Corps. For about two hours the regiment
marched in review, executed the manual
of arms and conducted dress parade, the
music being furnished by the Marine Band.
Gen. George H. Harries, commanding the
District militia, reviewed the command.
At the close of the drill the regiment was
divided into two battalions and a sham
battle was fought. Col. C. E. Boesch, of
the Central High School, commanded the
corps.
An Extensive Improvement.
Messrs. (Woodward & Lothrop, proprie-
tors of the Boston House, are about to.
begin the construction of a large addition
to their present stores. On the site of the
old St. Vincent's Orphan Asylum is to be
erected a building about 200 feet long and
100 feet deep, which is to adjoin the pres-
ent stores. It is estimated the cost of the
alterations and construction will be about
$500,000.
Death Of Mrs. O'Neil.
Mrs. O'Neil, wife of Rear-Admiral Charles
O'Neil, chief of the Bureau of Ordnance,
died at 12.30 o'clock this morning of ano-
plexy. She had been in ill health, but had
lately Improved greatly. Mrs. O'Neil leaves
one son, Dr. O'Neil, of Boston. Funeral
services will be held Saturday afternoon
and the interiment will be in Arlington
Cemetery. Before her marriage Mrs. O'Nell.
was Miss Frothingham, of Boston.
To Contest Mrs. Sailer's Will.
A caveat against the will of the late Eliz-
abeth Barber Sailer, which is dated No-
vember 10, 1896, and was submitted re-
cently for probate, has been filed by 11
heirs-at-law, most of whom live in Ger-
many. By the terms of the instrument
the testatrix bequeathed her entire estate
to the Washington Home for Incurables.
It is contended the paper filed is not the
decedent's last will, and that if she exe-
cuted it she was not of sound mind at the
time.
She Slipped On A Fish.
A verdict for $1,000 damages was found
in the suit of Emma L. Clagett and Maur-
ice J. Clagett, her husband, against the
Washington Market Company and Freder-
ick L. Grunewald, surviving partner of
M. Moreland & Co. The plaintiffs con-
tended that Mrs. Clagett slipped on a fish
while walking through the market and
sustained serious injury.
Arbor Day At Congress Heights.
Congress Heights celebrated today as Ar-
bor Day and planted about 30 trees. Over
300 persons were present. Among those
for whom trees were named were Senator
Hanna, Gifford Pinchot, forester of the
Agricultural Department; the late Gen.
Henry W. Lawton, Secretary Long, Vice-
President Roosevelt and Senator Clark, of
Montana.
Marriage Licenses.
Archie M. Nichols and May D. Hardisty,
of Montgomery county, Maryland, obtained
a marriage license in this city today. Li-
censes were issued also to James Stewart
and Annie S. Fortune; Edward E. Miner
and Mary E. Johnson; Charles Williams
and Ruth Matthews.
Rev. Buckey Assigned.
Rev. Edward Buckey, at one time rector
of St. John's Protestant Episcopal Church,
Newport, R. I., and who was ordained a
priest in the Roman Catholic Church in
Baltimore yesterday, is sald to have been
assigned as assistant pastor at St. Mat-
thew's Catholic Church in this city, vice
Rev. Father C. M. Bart, now pastor of St.
Teresa's Catholic Church, Anacostia. Fa-
ther Buckey is a son of the late Justice
M. V. Buckey, of Georgetown.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.