MONEY FOR REFORMATORIES
Appropriations From City Are Sub-
jected To Severe Pruning.
The manual training department of the
House of Refuge will be discontinued after
May 1 because of lack of funds. This was
determined upon Thursday, when the su-
perintendent of the institution, Capt.
Charles A. Hancock, resigned. He was ali-
pointed January 1 last.
President Joshua Levering, of the House
of Refuge, said yesterday:
"The manual training department, in
which 156 boys are employed, will have to
be closed because, without our knowing the
reason therefor, the appropriation for this
year has been cut down from $23,000 to
$13,000. The appropriation for the manual
training department was formerly $6,000,
but is now only $1,500, too small a sum to
keep it up."
The manual training department has been
In existence since 1889.
Mr. Joseph J. Janney, secretary, general
agent and manager on the part of the city
of the House of Reformation for Colored
Boys, at Cheltenham, explained last night.
why the managers announced that they
would not receive any more boys for the
present.
"We took that action," he said, "because
our finances will not allow us to take care
of those we have, much less receive others.
There are at the institution at present 277
boys and 25 employes. To support them
we have an income of $16,000, which is cer-
tainly not enough for a place of the kind,
and we are busily engaged at present in
trying to decide how to continue operations
without running into debt.
"Up to the present year our income was
$10,000 from the State and $12,000 from the
city. The subcommittee of the Jall Board
visited Cheltenham and was loud in its
praises of the way in which the reformatory
Is conducted, but apparently this report had
no influence upon the Board of Estimates,
for, without consulting a single one of the
board of managers or asking for any fur-
ther information, our appropriation was
cut down to $6,000 after we had run three
months into this year, without any intima-
tion of the reduction.
"It is not generally known that this is
the only reformatory of the kind in the
United States, and we get prisoners from
all over the country, committed by the
United States courts for violations of United
States laws. Of such prisoners there are
now about 28, but the average is about 25.
We are accomplishing splendid results and
are glad that public attention has been
drawn to the way in which we are handi-
capped."
President Richard B. Tippett, of the
Jail Board, which has supervision over re-
formatory institutions for which the city
makes appropriations, said that the
amounts for each reformatory institution
under the care of the Jall Board were
fixed by the Municipal Board of Estimates,
and that it would be impossible to make
any changes this year.
"Forty-eight thousand dollars is the sum
total for all reformatory Institutions for
this year," said Mr. Tippett yesterday aft-
ernoon. "The Board of Estimates fixed
the amount of each Institution, and the
distribution is being made in strict con-
formity to their action. The amount for
each Institution for the current year was
fixed as follows: House of Refuge, $13,-
000;.. St. Mary's Industrial School, $20,000;
Colored House of. Reformation, $6,000;
House of Good Shepherd for Colored Girls,
$2,500; Industrial Home for Colored Girls,
$1,500, and Female House of Refuge, $5,000,
making a total of $48,000.
"In those institutions where manual
training is a part of the course no extra
amount has been appropriated for that
purpose. At the last report of the House of
Refuge for 1900 the Institution had 148
boys committed by the city. St. Mary's
Industrial School got $20,000. At the last
report for 1900 the Institution had 371 boys
committed by the city. The Colored House
of Reformation for 1900 bad 144 boys. The
appropriation was $12,000, a per capita of
$7.50. There was a balance of $406.43.
No appropriation was made for manual
training nor for repairs. The House of the
Good Shepherd for Colored Girls got $2,500,
a per capita of $4.75. The Female House
of Refuge had an appropriation of $5,000,
being a per capita of $6.66 2-3. The ap-
propriation for the Industrial Home for
Colored Girls was $3,000, being a per cap-
Ita of $3.50. From the talks I have had
with Mr. Levering and General Riggs I
thought they thoroughly understood the
method by which the amounts for the ser-
eral institutions were appropriated."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.