TOREFORM, NOTPUNISH
Object Of Proposed Law Dealing
With Juvenile Offenders.
PROMINENT MEN DISCUSS IT
1
Judges, Magistrates And Represent-
atives Of Charities Hold An Im-
portant Meeting At McCoy Hall.
Representatives of the various charity or
ganizations of the city, the police magis-
trates and Commissioners, the judges of the
Supreme Bench and the State's Attorney's
office gathered in McCoy Hall, at the Johns
Hopkins University, yesterday to discuss
a bill which had been prepared to regulate
the control of lawbreakers under the age of
16 years. Mr. Eugene Levering was chair-
man of the meeting and Mr. R. Fielding
Reid was appointed secretary.
Invitations had ben sent to the Charity
Organization Society, the Association for
the Improvement of the Condition of the
Poor, the Hebrew Benevolent Society, the
Henry Watson Children's Aid Society, the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children, the Prisoners' Aid Society, the
House of Refuge, the Female House of
Refuge, St. Mary's Industrial School, the
German Society, the Colored House of
Reformation at Cheltenham and the So-
ciety of St. Vincent de Paul. Nearly all of
these were represented, while Judge Wright
represented the Supreme Bench and Jus-
tices Sauber and Poethe police magistrates.
Prepared By Committee Of Seven.
The proposed law was prepared by a com-
mittee of seven, of which Mr. Joseph Pack-
ard, president of the School Board, was
chairman. It provides briefly that there
shall be a special magistrate appointed to
consider cases of juvenile offenders, or of
children who are indigent, incorrigible or
vagrant, and that all such cases shall be
tried in one place, in order that the child
prisoners shall not be brought into contact
with the prisoners at the station houses.
In addition to the special magistrate the
proposed law provides that there shall be
one or more "probation officers," who
shall investigate the case of each child ar-
rested, appear in its behalf in the magis-
trate's court and advise the magistrate of
the child's condition, character and pros-
pects.
It is then provided that instead of com-
mitting child offenders to the City Jail as
punishment they may be committed to the
custody of the probation officers for a verm
within the discretion of the magistrate and
that the officers shall see that the children
keep the species of parols upon which they
are to be released where it is thought that
such release will be beneficial.
Must Not Be Sent To Jail.
An important feature of the law is, that
children whom the magistrate thinks
should be held for trial in the Criminal
Court in the regular way shall not be com-
mitted to the City Jail, but to some reform-
atory.
Mr. Charles J. Bonaparte .suggested a
number of improvements and amendments
to the law to enable it the better to with-
stand criticism in the courts, and he offered
two substitutes which covered practically
all the essential parts of the bill. The sub-
stitutes were accepted, as they strength-
ened, but did not materially change, the
proposed law.
The idea of Mr. Packard and Mr. Morris
A Soper, who did much of the work of
framing the original bill, was that the spe-
cial magistrate should be the reserve. po-
lice magistrate who is now provided for
by the State laws, but Mr. Bonaparte of-
fered an amendment calling for a new mag-
istrate to be appointed by the Governor
with the advice and consent of the Senate
and to receive a salary of $1,500, to be
paid by the city. Mr. Bonaparte said that
the man filling the position should be one
chosen because of his fitness to deal with
the peculiar class of cases coming within
his jurisdiction, and that such a man
would probably not be one who would ordi-
narlly be selected for a police justiceship.
Bonaparte Suggests Improvements.
The point was also brought out that the
reserve magistrate, according to the pres-
ent system, already has so many engage-
ments to sit in the various station houses
that he would not have time to devote his
attention to the juveniles. The amend-
ment was carried.
Mr. Bonaparte also offered a suggestion,
which was adopted, that the probation offi-
cers be "male or female, saying that there
are many instances where a female officer
would be desirable. This met with the
hearty approval of the meeting and was
adopted without question, though some
were inclined to think that the section
should specifically provide for female ofli-
cers. The officers are not to be paid by the
city or State, but are to be paid by private
subscriptions.
Justice Sauber made the point that there
was nothing in the proposed law to show
what should be done with children arrest-
ed between the time court closes in the aft-
ernoon and opens in the morning, and the
committee was instructed to insert
clause covering the case. Another omis-
sion which was brought out was that the
law gave the magistrate designated exclu-
sive jurisdiction over the child offenders
and did not show who should substitute
for him when he should be incapacitated.
The committee was instructed to insert a
clause providing for a substitute.
a
Parents To Be Consulted.
Where the magistrate shall hold his court,
if the bill is passed, has not yet been-de-
cided, but it is hoped that it will be in one
of the vacant rooms of the new Court.
house.
Mr. Bonaparte also had inserted a clause
providing that when a child is committed
to a reformatory the parents or guardian
shall be consulted about which reforma-
tory shall receive the prisoner and their
wishes shall be given great respect in mak-
ing the decision. Mr. Soper made a sug-
tried in the Criminal Court the Supreme
gestion that as some cases will have to be
the cases and have them all at one time,
Bench appoint one of its members to try
so that the juvenile defendants may be re-
moved as much as possible from ordinary
court scenes.
Good Result In Chicago.
Mr. Levering was instructed on motion
to appoint a committee of seven to carry
the bill, when it is completed, to the Legis-
lature and to do all in its power to see that
it is passed. Mr. Levering was asked to
take the chairmanship of the committee,
but declined.
In a summary of the proposed law which
was distributed before the meeting it was
stated that similar systems are now in
operation in Washington, Boston, Chicago,
St. Louis, Milwaukee, Buffalo and the en-
tire State of New Jersey and have proved
very beneficial.
As an instance of the good results it is
said that in 1897, 1898 and 1899 in Chicago
1,705 boys were sent to jail, but that in
1999 and 1900, after the passage of the law,
only 24 were sent to jail.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.