Whipping Post For Wife-Beating.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.]
HAGERSTOWN, MD., Aug. 28.-In Hagers
town today Juage Stake sentenced Abraham
Saunders, a negro, to receive 20 lashes on
the bare back for beating his wife. The
woman swore he struck her eight times and
dislocated her jaw.
Judge Stake sentenced 13 prisoners to the
House of Correction for terms ranging from
three months to one year. He sent two
prisoners to jail and one, a negro boy, to
the Cheltenham Reformatory. Most of the
prisoners were negroes charged with theft
or carrying concealed weapons.
A Bicycle "Scorcher."
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.]
IMAGERSTOWN, MD., Aug. 28.--Emmanuel
Craig, colored, last night while scorching
on his bicycle, rode over the 4-year-old son
of John Siss, in Hagerstown, and injured
the lad. The negro said "people should
keep their kids off the street."
Antomobile Wrecked.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.]
MOUNTAIN LAKE PARK, MD., Aug. 28. -
The automobile of Mr. John Carmody, of
Washington, at Mountain Lake Park, was
wrecked in an attempt to reverse the ma-
chine and escape an unmanageable team.
Dr. Pontius, musical director of the Moun-
tain Chautauqua, and Mr. Carmody were
thrown out. Dr. Pontius was so badly
hurt that he will be disabled for some time.
Mr. Carmody is severely bruised. The au-
tomobile bucked when an attempt was
made to reverse it and it bolted hind end
foremost, tearing off the rear wheel and
throwing out the occupants.
Coal Hoppers Derailed.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.)
BRUNSWICK, MD., Aug. 28.-A broken rail
on the Baltimore and Ohio railroad, just
west of Bartholow, Frederick county, caused
derailment of seven steel hoppers loaded
with coal in an eastbound freight train at
10 A. M. today. Two of the cars were com-
pletely wrecked. The westbound track was
cleared in three hours and traffic resumed.
No one was injured.
i
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.