Boys In Serious Trouble.
Joseph Alban, Jesse Fleury, William
Lehnert and Harry Jones, bors, were be-
fore Justice Poe yesterday, charged with
entering the establishment of Jacob Ep-
stein, 216 West Baltimore street, and steal-
ing a brass clock, four dozen belts and a
pair of gloves, valued in all at $8.40. All
were released on bail for court, with the
exception of Alban, who was held at the
station house antil he can get the secur-
ity. Frank Jirsa, 16 years old, was re-
leased for court by the magistrate, charged
with entering the same place and stealing
three dozen ladies' belts and two pairs of
gloves, valued at $7.75. A short time ago
the establishment was much damaged by
fire, and it is alleged that the boys were
rummaging among the debris and stealing
articles of value which they might find.
Two boys were caught in the cellar Tues-
day night and they implicated the others.
Held Up By Negroes.
Andrew Polinsky, 38 years old, reported
to Patrolman Miller, of the Western dis-
trict, yesterday that he was attacked by
three negroes while walking on the Balti-
more and Ohio railroad, near Mount Airy,
about 2 o'clock yesterday morning. Two
revolvers were pointed in his face by the
negroes, who ordered him to hold up his
hands. He did so, and they went through
his pockets and took 25 cents, which was
all the money he had. As he started to
walk away one of the negroes, he says,
shot at him three times. One of the bul-
lets hit him in the right leg below the
knee. He told some train hands of his in-
jury and he was brought to Baltimore on
a train. Afterward he was removed to
the Maryland University Hospital, where
he had the wound dressed.
Musicians' Dressing Room Robbed.
David Politzer and Wiliam Lessner, 17
and 18 years old, respectively, were com-
mitted to jail yesterday for a hearing on
January 26, by Justice Poe, charged with
stealing a silver cigarette case and a sil-
ver matchbox, valued at $30, from Signor
Emerico Morreale, leader of the orches-
tra of the Francis Wilson opera troupe,
and also with stealing a gold hunting case
watch from Joseph Radcliffe, one of the
musicians in the orchestra. The articles
are alleged to have been stolen on Satur-
day from a dressing room at the Academy
of Music.
i
The young men admitted the charges.
The case could not be sent to court yes-
terday, because of the fact that the Fran-
cis Wilson Opera Company is now playing
at Syracuse, N. Y., and the two musicians
who lost the articles are with the com-
pany.
Says He Bought $0 Worth of Candy.
Harrison Waters, colored, 12 years old,
was taken before Justice Goldman, of the
Northwestern Police Station, yesterday.
charged with stealing, $0 from Mrs. Mary
Ward, 1013 West Lanvale street, iast Tues-
day. The boy admitted having stolen the
money, which he said he had spent on
candy. The prisoner would have been com-
mitted for court, but the boy's 'father,
James Waters, colored, 247 Campbell street,
filed a charge against his son of incorrigi-
bility; so Justice Goldman committed him
to the House of Reformation for Colored
Boys at Cheltenham, Prince George's coun-
ty, dismissing the charge of larceny.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.