NO DANGER OF STARVING
Economy At Cheltenham Has Not
Attacked The Commissariat.
Messrs. Editors: Fearing that the state-
ment in regard to the House of Reforma-
tion, that the point of starvation is al-
most reached, may be misleading and give
concern to some parents who have boys
there, I wish to assure the public that
there is no danger of this. It is true the
cutting down of our appropriation by the
elty is causing us no little concern, and we
feel the necessity of the closest economy in
order to avoid a deficiency in our finances;
yet there is no intention of shortening the
allowance of food either for the boys or
for the officers. Economy will be made to
affect every other department before it will
- be permitted to attack the commissariat.
The cut of 50 per cent. in our allowance
from the city and the decrease in the ap-
propriations to other reformatories is a se-
rious mistake, but we feel hopeful that the
year 1002 will see us restored at least to
the old basis of financial support by the
city; if so this temporary embarrassment
can in time be overcome. As far as the
House of Reformation is concerned, we feel
certain that those who were instrumental in
cutting down our appropriation never paid
us a visit and informed themselves of the
needs of the institution. But we will in
our own defense say this: That the Jail
- Board, through its own subcommittee,
must have known that we were worthy of
support, for this language is used in a let-
ter to me by a member of that subcommit-
tee: "I am proud to have been one of a
committee to visit such an admirable insti-
tution. Would there were more like it!"
Whoever is responsible for the cutting
down of the appropriation for the House of
Reformation-and no one seems willing to
shoulder it-it is certain they could not
have realized the good work that is being
done there. Those in whom is vested the
authority to fix the amount of the people's
money that may be properly employed in
the support of reformatories should be re-
quired to visit them personally, and if they
are found to be worthy of support, appro-
priate the amount that may be needed to
maintain them adequately.
May 13, 1901.
JOSEPH J. JANNEY,
Secretary of Board of Managers.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.