;
THE JUVENILE COURT BILL
Mr. Glenn Claims It Is Not Open To
Objections Stated.
Messrs. Editors: Will you allow me space
for a few words in reference to the letter
of Mr. Goldsborough S. Griffith about the
juvenile court?!
It is agreeable to find that on the main
principle, which is the foundation of our
desire for a juvenile court, Mr. Griffith and
the advocates of the court are agreed. He
says "family ties are regarded as very sa-
cred things." The main object of the pro-
posed law is to preserve family ties. The
object of having probation officers is to
keep children in their own homes and to
compel unwilling parents to take care of
their own children in cases where, under
our present system, the children would
have to be sent to reformatories or to jail.
This can be done only by means of proba-
tion officers.. It is a system which is in
force in many other cities and has proved
satisfactory. Experience elsewhere has
shown that the adoption of the 'probation
system lessens the number of children
brought up for commitment. The powers
of investigation and supervision given to
the probation officers are precisely similar
to those now exercised by the pald agents
of the Society for the Protection of Chil-
dren and the Prisoners' Aid Association.
Incidentally, the number of charges for
which the city and State must pay will be
reduced in proportion to the number of chil-
dren kept at home instead of going to re-
formatories.
Mr. Griffith seems unwilling to leave the
committing power to a magistrate. What
he says as to the ability of a magistrate to
deal with these cases of children would
apply, if true, to all our magistrates. My
experience is that our police station jus-
tices are as capable of dealing with such
cases as the judges of our courts. It is
not necessary that one should be deeply
learned in the law in order to decide
whether a child is vicious, or neglected, or
destitute, or is a subject for commitment
by the grand jury. The chief requirements
are sympathy (not sentimentalism), com-
mon sense and experience. All of these
qualities our police justices possess equally
with our judges. In the matter of expe-
rience they are more used to dealing with
this class of cases.
There is no reason to fear the dangers
which Mr. Griffith suggests as likely to
follow the placing of the jurisdiction over
children in a single justice. There are
cases which come before magistrates in
which it is conceivable that politics may
have an influence, but there is little oppor-
tunity for this in the cases of children and
they appeal to the best that is in every
man. I believe that any man would find it
hard, for political or corrupt reasons, to
deal injudiciously with children. On the
other hand, the submission of all the cases
of children to a single justice will concen-
trate public attention on his work and lia-
bility to public criticism will require a
high standard. If the argument against
the capacity of magistrates to deal with
these cases is a good one, it seems very im-
portant that the power to commit, now
vested in civil magistrates who are not un-
der the public eye and before whom com-
paratively few such cases come, should be
discontinued. In speaking of the powers
of courts under our present laws, Mr. Grif-
fith seems to forget that the chancery pow.
ers under a habeas corpus cannot be called
into play until after a child has been com-
mitted to an institution.
There certainly is no hardship in requir-
ing children and parents to come to one
central place in these days of rapid transit.
If the spirit of the law is carried out chil-
dren will not be conveyed to the court as
"prisoners." At present, whatever the pro-
visions of the law may be, minors are not
tried separate from adults in the police
courts, nor is it easy to see how this sepa-
ration could be managed practically. The
law does not require that negro boys must
be sent to Cheltenham pending action by
the grand jury and trial. It merely gives
the justice power to send children, pending
trial or commitment, to some other place
than jail or station-house. If he thinks it
best he may proceed as he can now..
The bill before the Legislature was pre-
pared by a committee consisting of Mr.
Joseph Packard, Gen. Lawrason Riggs,
Messrs. Morris A. Soper, Moses R. Walter,
Leon E. Greenbaum, William Reynolds and
John M. Glenn. It was then submitted to
a conference, Invitations to which were
sent to representatives of all societies and
institutions in the city dealing with chil-
dren, the Judges of the Supreme Bench,
the State's Attorney and the Police Com-
missioners. The meeting was largely at-
tended, among those present being three of
the police justices. At the conference the
law was fully discussed and amended in
Important particulars. Unfortunately the
invitation was not accepted by any repre-
sentatives of the two societies which Mr.
Griffith represents. The conference was
presided over by Mr. Eugene Levering,
president of the Association for the Im-
provement of the Condition of the Poor,
and a committee was appointed to present,
the bill to the Legislature, consisting of
Mr. Joseph Packard, Mr. John R. Cary, Dr.
William Bullock Clark, Messrs. Frederick
D. Morrison, Morris A. Soper, William F.
Wheatley and James R. Wheeler. It is
hardly correct to characterize such gentle-
men as "ill-guided regulators of morals
and manners."
JOHN M. GLENN.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.