CHEVY CHASE LAND SUIT
Interesting Decision By The Court
In Montgomery.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.)
ROCKVILLE, MD., April 19. The close of
Mary Hodges against the Chevy Chase Land
Company was decided in the Circuit Court
for Montgomery County this morning,
Judges McSherry and Henderson dismiss-
Ing the suit. It was an action of eject-
ment to determine the title to about 90
acres of land of the holdings of the Chevy
Chase Land Company in the lower section
of the county which had been devised by
the late Dr. Benjamin B. Hodges to the
plaintiff's father for life and then to his
children. Shortly after the testator's death
a bill was filed in the Equity Court here
for the sale of the land for partition. All
of the living children of the life tenant
were parties to this suit. A decree was
passed, a trustee appointed and the land
sold. After the sale the plaintiff was born.
Her contention was that she was not bound
by the decree and sale and is therefore stili
entitled to her interest in the land, and this
suit was brought to settle that question.
The court decided that the plaintiff was
bound, under the provisions of an act of
1862, by representation. All the parties
being interested in the property being par-
ties to the equity suit, as required by that
act, hence the decision against the plaintiff.
Messrs. Ridout & Bright, of Washington,
appeared for Miss Hodges, and Messrs. Ar-
thur Peter and Rallston & Siddons, of Wash-
ington, and Edward C. Peter, of Rockville,
represented the land company.
SHOT IN A SALOON
-
Edward Straton Killed In Frederick
By William Johnson.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.]
FREDERICK, MD., April 19. Edward
Straton, 24 years old, was shot and almost
instantly killed by his friend, William
Johnson, in Dudley Strasberger's saloon,
on West All Saints street, this evening.
The two men, who had been working on
the Baltimore and Ohio Improvements near
Mount Airy, had been good friends and
came to Frederick this evening to get some
beer. They went to Strasberger's saloon,
a noted place on All Saints street, and soon
formed friends with several negro women.
A quarrel soon occurred between the two
men, and Johnson pulled his revolver and
üred three shots at Straton. The latter
reeled and fell on the porch. Some of his
friends picked him up and started for a
doctor, but when he got as far as Brewers
alley he sank to the pavement and ex-
pired.
The shooting created a consternation
among the negroes, and they all fied from
the place, no effort being made to appre-
hend the murderer.
Johnson escaped in the excitement. He
is described as a mulatto, about 5 feet 10
inches and weighing 150 pounds.
Penitentiary Sentences.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.]
UPPER MARLBORO, MD., April 19.-In the
Circuit Court for Prince George's County,
which adjourned the April term today, John
Green was sentenced to the penitentiary for
five years for assault with intent to rape.
James E. Goldborough and John Gordon,
colored, both boys from the House of Ref-
ormation, at Cheltenham, were sentenced to
three years in the penitentiary for assault-
ing one of the guards of that institution.
Thomas Davage wassentenced to four years
in the penitentiary for larceny.
Blue Ridge Tunnel.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.]
HAGERSTOWN, MD., April 19.-Twelve sur-
veyors, under Chief Engineer C. H. Bratt,
are making the third survey for the pro-
posed tunnel for the Western, Maryland
rallroad under the Blue Ridge Mountains.
The tunnel will be 400 feet below Blue
Ridge Summit and run directly under the
Monterey Hotel. The surveys will not be
finished for several weeks. As soon as the
work is completed the cost of tunneling
the mountain will be calculated. It is pre-
dicted that work will begin in the fall,
especially if the railroad is sold.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.