CHILDREN AND CRIME
Charities And Corrections Con-
ference. Takes Up Subject.
WANT MARRIAGE RESTRICTED
Two Physicians Urge Legislation
With A View To Preventing The
Union Of The Mentally Deficient.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.]
WASHINGTON, May 14.-The care of the
feeble-minded and epileptics occupied the
attention of the general session of the Con-
ference of Charities and Corrections this
morning. Dr. William A. Polglase, super-
intendent of the Michigan Home for the
Feeble-Minded and Epileptics, made the re-
port of the committee. Miss Margaret Ban-
croft, superintendent of the Training School
for Feeble-Minded at Haddonfield, N. J.,
rend a paper on the classification of the
mentally deficient. She said this class
learns more rapidly when associated with
those who are not in the same condition.
Dr. Polglase took the opposite view.
A paper on "Legal Restrictions on the
Marriage of the Unfit" was read by A. C.
Rogers, superintendent of the Minnesota
School for the Feeble-Minded, at Fairbault,
Minn. He reviewed bills which had been
considered by State Legislatures with the
Intention of putting a stop to the marriage
of the mentally deficient or those afflicted
with diseases or vicious habits which would
be transmitted to their children. None of
them had ever passed. The opposition to
legal restraints upon marriage was based,
he said, upon the lack of public sentiment,
upon the theory that they would be an inter-
ference with personal liberty, and that it
would result in a tendency to increase im-
morality. He advised that legislation upon
such points should be applied only so far
as absolute knowledge of the facts could be
obtained.
Dr. W. J. Spratling, of New York, held
that restricting marriages was the only,
way to prevent the increase of this unfor-
tunate class, already too large.
Destitute and neglected children were con-
sidered at a section meeting, where C. D.
Randall, of Coldwater, Mich.; Thomas E.
Ellison, Joseph P. Byers, secretary of the
Ohio State Board of Charities, and others
spoke.
Meetings were held to discuss the care of
the insane and on juvenile reformatories.
At the evening session Lyman D. Drake
read a paper on "The Origin and Develop-
ment of the Juvenile Reformatory," pre-
pared by E. P. Wentworth, superintendent
of the State Reform School, Portland,
Maine.
"During the nineteenth century prison
life was vastly improved," he said. "At
the beginning of the century prisoners
were treated more like brutes than men
and women, but the public conscience was
awakened and conditions began to improve
rapidly. The public began to realize that
with childish offenders herded with hard-
ened criminals the children could not fall
to grow up steeped in crime. Today the 58
juvenile reform schools in the United
States cost about $3,500,000 a year, and
have property valued at $20,000,000."
"Girls' Reformatories and Their Inherent
Characteristics" was discussed by W. G.
Fairbank, superintendent of the State In-
dustrial School for Girls, Middletown,
Conn. He thought the reformatories for
girls received less attention than those for
boys. The girls, however, are more valu-
able to modern society, in his opinion. Mr.
Fairbanks favored the cottage or family
plan. In the reformatories, he said, the
girls should be taught housework and
homemaking first, although typewriting
may be taught later.
The following officers were elected on a
report of the committee on organization:
President, Timothy Nicholson, of Richmond; vice-
presidents, B. T. Janney, of Washington, D. C.;
Franklin MacVeagh, of Chicago, III.: Thomas
Muley, of New York; Jose M. Berriz, Havana,
Cuba, and Mr. Jose F. Godoy, Washington, D. C.;
general secretary, Homer Folks, of New York city:
treasurer, A. O. Crozier, of Grand Rapids, Mich.;
official reporter, Mrs. Isabel G. Borrows, of New
York city.
The members of the conference will go
to Annapolls Junction, Md., tomorrow to
visit the National Junior Republic.
Maryland has 32 delegates in attend-
ance, as follows:
Miss B. Elizabeth Ahrens, friendly visitor, Chari-
ty Organization Society of Baltimore; Miss M. Julia
Austin, secretary Children's Fresh-Air Society of
Baltimore; Mrs. T. M. Birney, president National
Congress of Mothers, Chery Chase; Jeffrey R.
Brackett, president Department of Charities and
Correction, Baltimore: Miss Elizabeth Brown,
friendly visitor, Charity Organization Society of
Baltimore; Miss Mary Willcox Brown, general sec
retary Charity Organization Society of Baltimore;
Mrs. Lucy S. Doolittle, member, Board Children's
Guardians, Linden; John M. Glenn, president Na-
tional Conference of Charities and Correction, ru-
pervisor city charities, Baltimore: Nathaniel G.
Grasty, secretary supervisors of city charities, Bal-
timore: J. M. Hendrix, acting assistant superin-
tendent House of Refuge, Baltimore; T. James
Hunter, visitor-in-chief, supervisor city charities,
Baltimore; Miss Rebecca P. Laughlin, Evening Dis-
pensary for Working Women and Girls, Baltimore;
Herbert W. Lewis, emigration agent New York
Children's Aid Society of Sligo; Miss Kate M. Mc-
Lane, chairman District Building Committee Char-
ity Organization Society of Baltimore; Miss Viola
8. Pyne, superintendent St. Paul's Girls' School,
Baltimore; Miss Kate A. Ranstead, member Charity
Organization Society of Baltimore; Miss Annie E.
Rutherford, general secretary of the Henry Watson
Children's Aid Society of Baltimore: C. Charles
Shippen, manager Charity Organization Society of
Baltimore; Miss E. Elizabeth Spicer, agent Charity
Organization Society, Walbrook, Baltimore; Mrs.
Sarah P. Thomas, agent Charity Organization So-
ciety of Baltimore; Nathan Thompson, House of
Refuge for Colored Boys, Cheltenham: Miss Mary
Isabella White, matron Johns Hopkins Asylum,
Baltimore; Louis F. Zinkhan, Bayview Asylum,
Baltimore.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.