KAFFIRS IN THE WAR
Boer Commandant Declares He
Will Shoot Them Down.
BRITISH ARE USING THEM
Kitchener Cites A Case Where No
Mercy Was Shown-Conflict Cost
Britain $6,250,000 Weekly In July.
LONDON, Aug. 1.-A dispatch from Lord
Kitchener, dated at Pretoria today, says:
"French reports that he has received a
letter from Kritzinger announcing an in-
tention to shoot all natives in British em-
ploy, whether armed or unarmed. Many
cases of cold-blooded murder of natives in
Cape Colony have recently occurred."
Another dispatch from Lord Kitchener
says:
"On July 28 an officer's patrol of 20 yeo-
maury and some native scouts followed
two carts and a few Boers 15 miles from
the railway at Doorn river, Orange River
Colony, where they were cut off by 200
Boers, and after defending themselves in a
small building, surrendered when their am-
munition was exhausted. Three yeomen
were wounded. After the surrender the
Boers made the native scouts throw up
their hands and shot them In cold blood.
They afterward shot a wounded yeoman.
The remainder were released. The Boers
gave as a reason for shooting the yeoman
that they thought he was a 'Cape boy.' Evi-
dence on oath has been taken of the mur-
ders."
A Lorenzo Marquez dispatch says: "A
Boer commando with two guns has entered
Portuguese territory, camping at Guanetz.
Five hundred Portuguese troops are already
at Guanetz, and artillery left here for that
place this morning. Three hundred troops
in addition are in readiness to proceed un-
less the Boers surrender."
In the House of Commons Lord Stanley,
Financial Secretary of the War Ofice, re-
plying to a question, said the cost of the
war in South Africa from April 1 to July
31 was £35,750,000 ($178,750,000), partly
chargeable against the deficit of last year.
The actual cost in July was £1,250,000 ($6,-
250,000) weekly. The statement was greeted
with Ironical Irish cheers. The Chancellor
of the Exchequer, Sir Michael Hicks-Beach,
sald if the war continued at the same cost
for the next three months it would necesst-
tate spending the whole of the reserve he
had provided for financing the third quar-
ter of 1901; but he had reason to hope that
this would not be necessary.
The House of Lords unanimously voted
the grant of £100,000 ($500,000) for Lord
Roberts, recommended by King Edward, as
a token of appreciation of the Field Mar-
shal's services in South Africa.
Martial law has been proclaimed on
Tucker's and Morgan's Islands, Bermuda,
where Boer prisoners are confined. The
British transport Manila, Captain Haddock,
from Port Natal, July 4, and Table Bay.
July 8, has arrived at Bermuda with more
prisoners.
"Mr. Kruger's American tour," says the
Brussels correspondent of the Dail Mail.
"will include visits to New York, Philadet.
phia, Boston, Washington and Chicago.
Negotiations are about to begin for his re-
ception by President McKinley."
The president of the Royal College of
Surgeons, Sir William MacCormac, read a
paper before the British Medical Associa-
tion, now in session at Cheltenham, stating
that the character of gunshot wounds ha'd
completely changed since his experiences
in the Franco-Prussian War, when he was
surgeon-in-chief to the Anglo-American am
bulance. Not only was the severity of the
wounds diminished, he sald, but they were
less frequent. So the improvements made
in weapons did not render the prosecution
of war worse, as contended in some quar-
tera. Only 6 per cent. of the wounded
died. With reference to the charges made
against the army hospital service in South
Africa by Win. Ashmend Bartlett-Burdett-
Coutts, Sir William said Mr. Coutts had no
idear of the perspective and exaggerated ev-
erything.