was unsatisfactory because of the charac-
ter of the evidence. The plan of having of-
ficers in citizens' clothing to look for viola-
tions of the Sunday law is commended.
In order to prevent a continued increaes of
pocketbook snatching and petty thieving by
colored boys, some plan to make the boys!
parents partially responsible is recommend-
ed. A law to prevent the employment of
messenger boys of tender years to answer
calls and do errands for disorderly houses
is also recommended.
The grand jury found that unscrupulous
second-hand dealers are a prominent factor
in the commission of crime. They recom-
mend that such dealers be required to give
a bond and pay a license of not less than
$200 a year.
The committee on the Colored House of
Reformation recommends in its report the
abolition of the ball and chain, the hopples
and any other punishment as severe, which
are a relie of slave days.
The management and condition of all the
institutions were commended by the com-
inittees who visited them.
Judge Wickes sald he cordially agreed
with what the grand jury said, especially
with reference to the Colored House of Ref-
ormation. That institution had opened
an avenue for the court to dispose of col-
ored boys convicted of offences, but as no
more boys would be received there because
of the reduction in the appropriation, the
administration of justice has been inter-
fered with.
The grand jurors for the May term, who
were selected some time ago, have been
summoned for Monday.
The members of the grand jury for the
January term, which-completed its work
yesterday, were entertained at a banquet
last night at the Maryland Hotel, 4 South
Calvert street, as the guests of the fore-
man, Mr. William P. Harvey. Short
speeches were made by Mr. Harvey, Col.
Sherlock Swan, Mr. J. A. Clark, Mr. Solo-
mon Herman, Mr. Fuller Waters, Mr.
Henry F. Broenig, Clerk of the Criminal
Court, and others.
REFORMATORIES NEED MONEY
Grand Jury Denounces Withdrawal
Of Appropriations.
In addition to its commendation, of the
management of the Female House of Ref-
uge, the grand jury condemns the reduc-
tion of the city appropriation to the House
of Refuge for Boys and the Colored House
of Reformation at Cheltenham. On this
subject the main report states that the re-
duction of the appropriations has reduced
these institutions to a deplorable condition,
and then continues:
"At Cheltenham it causes the reduction
of food almost to a starvation point, and at
the House of Refuge here in Baltimore for
white boys it has caused the closing of the
manual training department and the shut-
ting down of the electrical machinery. No.
repairs can be made, and the roof of one
building is in a deplorable state, leaving the
Institution in such a condition as to be al-
purpose it was never intended."
most useless except as a prison, for which
Liquor cases took up a great deal of the
grand jury's time, as usual, but the result
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.