CHELTENHAM BOYS IN JAIL
Charged With An Assault Upon A
Keeper, With Intent To Kill.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.]
MARLEORO, MD.. Dec. 7.-Deputy Sheriff
P. E. Hall brought to the county jail James
Goldbraugh and John Gordon, charged
with committing an assault with intent to
kill J. H. Forbes, teacher at the House of
Reformation at Cheltenham.
These boys were inmates of the institu-
tion and hailed from Easton and Freder-
ick, Md., and have been more than six
years at the home. On Monday last the
prisoners were placed in the guard-house
for Immoral conduct, and the charge is that
they planned a scheme to kill Mr. Forbes
and make their escape. When supper was
served them they made a rush on the
keeper, felled him to the ground with
blows and then kicked him until he became
unconscious. At once they left the cell and
were well on their way to Washington,
when arrested at Anacostia, D. C.
Mr. Forbes was found by some of the
guards and is not confined to his bed un-
der the treatment of the institution's physi-
clan.
Magistrate Squires committed the boys
to jail for the action of the grand jury.
A FATAL FALL
Horris Sutton Accidentally Killed
In Harford County.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.]
BELAIR, MD., Dec. T. - Horris Sutton,
aged about 28. a san of Luther Sutton,
near Taylor, Harford county, died las
evening as the result of injuries received
Thursday night by falling from the second-
story room of Houch's mill, a distance of
20 feet. Young Sutton was returning to
his home from Baltimore, when he stopped
at the will to play a game of cards with
several, of his friends. The game was
played in the office on the second floor, and
shortly after 8 o'clock Sutton left the room
for the purpose of continuing his journey
home. It was not until some time after-
ward that the young man was found by
This friends on the ground beneath an open
door on the second floor and in a uncon-
scious condition. He was carried to his
home and everything done to save his life.
The only injury noticed on his body was a
slight wound on the head back of his right
car, which, it is thought, caused concus-
sion of the brain, resulting in death.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.