GRAND JURY AT CHELTENHAM
Finds Institution Below Standard
Of Other Places.
A committee of the grand jury, of which
Mr. James King is chairman, visited the
Colored House of Reformation at Chelten-
ham yesterday and made a thorough in-
spection of the place. Besides Mr. King
there were present Mark O. Shriver, Leon-
ard M. Levering, James L. Reese, John
Aftung, William H. Scott, Dr. Charles H.
Cockey, Emil Caye, John W. King, James
Owens, Joseph J. Janney, James A. Har-
ris (colored) and George C. Morrison. Mr.
Henry Broening, Clerk of the Criminal
Court, was also in the party.
The special committee on the institution
will report to the grand jury that the in-
stitution is in "fairly good condition;" that
the sanitary arrangement and drainage are
bad; that there is an insufficient number
of officers; that more work should be given
to the boys, as not over 50 are employed at
a time, and that the appropriation for the
Institution is not large enough to meet re-
quirements. Larger appropriations and a
general overhauling of the buildings will
be recommended.
Mr. James King said last night: "We
found about 50 boys of the 250 at work.
The kitchen and schoolroom were in fairly
good condition. There ought to be more
workshops, and with more officers more
boys could work on the farm. The appro-
priation is too small and will have to be
Increased if the school is to be placed on
the same standard with other institutions
of the kind."
Mr. Mark O. Shriver, foreman, was seen
at his house, 607 St. Paul street, last night
and said:
"We were not at all satisfied with the
management of the Institution, which
seems to be faulty in a number of respects.
Still, we think that much allowance should
be made for the new superintendent, who
has been there only a few months. The
school officials claim that they are handi-
capped by a lack of money and to this
scarcity of funds they attribute many of
the conditions we observed.
"The place is not kept very clean and
the sanitary arrangements are poor. We
were told that the superintendent has al-
ready achieved considerable improvement
with the amount of money at his disposal,
and he said that with sufficient funds he
could make the institution a model of its
kind."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.