MAYOR VISITS CHELTENHAM
Expresses Regret That City's Appro-
priation Was Cut.
Mayor Hayes paid a long visit to the
Colored House of Reformation, at Chel-
tenham, Prince George's county, yesterday
on invitation from the board of managers,
who desired the Mayor to see what is be-
ing done to reform the colored boys sent
there by the magistrates of the city and
counties and with what insufficient means
the work is being carried on.
In the party accompanying the Mayor
were Messrs. Joseph J. Janney, secretary
of the board; Harry S. Cummings, Rev.
George F. Bragg, Jr., Orrin C. Painter,
City Councilman Hiram Watty and Rev.
W. V. Tunnell, warden of King Theolog-
ical Hall, Washington. The party left on
the early morning train and did not get
back to the city until late in the evening.
The visitors inspected the various school-
rooms and dormitories under the guidance
of Mr. John E. Dorsey, the superintendent,
who entertained the guests at dinner. Aft-
erward the boys assembled in the chapel
and the Mayor made them an address.
His Honor was informed that the insti-
tution is considerably in debt, owing to
the decreased appropriations by State and
city and that the number of inmates has
been as high as 300, but of late, compulsory
dismissals have been made to such an ex
tent as to close one of the schools. Cur-
tailments have been effected in many of
the departments and the salaries of the
teachers have been reduced. Mayor Hayes
expressed his sympathy with the work of
the institution and said he realized the un-
fortunate condition of the reformatory
and would bring its needs before those in
authority.
After his return to the city the Mayor
said he was delighted with his trip. "They
are doing a noble work down there," he
added, "and Mr. Dorsey, the superintend-
ent, is a splendid man for the place. The
boys seem to like and trust him, and he
makes them feel that the institution is a
home for them and not a penal institution.
It is unfortunate that the city cut its ap-
propriation down from $12,000 to $10,000,
and had I known the conditions there, I
would not have agreed to it."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.