BOY SENT TO JAIL
Cheltenham Being Full, There Is No
Other Place.
William Lee, a diminutive colored boy,
who said he is 14 years old, presented a
puzzling question when convicted in the
Criminal Court yesterday of assault.
The boy was convicted of cutting Hugh
Taylor, a white boy, with a butcher knife
on October 31 Inst. Deputy State's Attor-
ney Poe sald there was no suitable place
to send the boy, as Cheltenham is full.
Judge Ritchie puzzled over the inatter
for some time and finally sentenced Lee to
Jell for three months.
Lee was also charged with stealing the
knife with which he did the cutting, but
this case was stetted. Henry Johnson, an-
other colored boy jointly charged with the
assault, was acquitted. The cases of both
boys were sent on from the Juvenile Court.
Sailor Was A Droll Witness.
Thomas Edward Thompson, a native of
Ireland and a deep-water sallor, afforded
much amuseinent in the Criminal Court
yesterday while testifying in the case of
John Turner, colored, charged with the lar-
ceny of $2 from the cash drawer of a saloon
at the corner of Bond and Thames streets.
Thompson was in a back rooin of the saloon
when the larceny occurred on October 30
last, and the grotesque manner in which
he described the occurrence kept every-
body laughing and the ballifts crying "Si-
lence!" Turner was convicted and wa
sentenced to six months in jail.
Harry De Long Acquitted.
Harry De Long, charged with feloniously
assaulting Theresa Seguin, 14 years old.
was acquitted in Part 2 of the Criminal
Court yesterday. The case was tried before
Judge Dobler, withouta jury, in the Judge's
private room, Thomas J. Mason was at-
torney for the defense. The alleged offenee
was committed on October 20 last at 123
West Mulberry street.
New Corporations.
The Baltimore Fertilizer Company, for
manufacturing fertilizers, was Incorporated,
yesterday by H. Scott Roop, Newton S.
Watts and Christian Rodekurt, of Balti-
more, and E. Oliver Grimes, Jr., and Wil-
llam T. Wilson, of Westminster, Md. The
capital stock is $15,000, divided into 300
shares of $50 each.
The Home Real Estate Company was in-
corporated yesterday for dealing in real es-
tate by Moses Rothschild, Solomon Roths-
child, Charles F. Diehl, Jacob M. Moses
and Daniel M. Moses. The capital stock is
$5,000, divided into 200 shares of $25 each.
The Belvidere Lunch Company, for con-,
ducting a lunch room and eating house, was
Incorporated yesterday by Richd. L. Smith,
Stephen M. Broadbent, Henry W. Watkins,
Louis Sommers and Daniel V. Knight, with
a capital stock of $800, divided into 80
shares of $10 each.