MAY JURY DISMISSED
Makes A Number Of Recommen-
dations In Its Report.
WOULD LASH WIFE BEATERS
Says Perjury Is Commited In Shield-
ing Saloonkeepers And Urges Re-
moval Of Screens And Blinds.
Judge Phelps, in the Criminal Court, yes-
terday, received the final report of the
Grand Jury for the May term. The jury
was then discharged with the thanks of the
court.
The grand inquest and the several comm-
mittees appointed to visit the various in-
stitutions made a number of recommenda-
tions, the former referring to the frequency
of charges of wife-beating and urging that
such offenders be punished by the lash
rather than by the imposition of fines or
by imprisonment.
In its report the jury said it had consid-
ered 263 cases from the sheriff's docket, 64
from the special docket and 1.009 from the
grand jury docket. A total of 699 present-
ments were found, 637 cases were dis-
nussed, 281 tried, 45 persons acquitted and
236 convicted. There were 3,589 witnesses
summoned.
On the grand jury docket there were 634
cases presented. 375 dismissed; special
docket, 54 presented and 10 dismissed,
sheriff's docket. 11 presented and 252 dis-
missed. The following was given as the
classification of cases on the grand jury
docket:
Murder....
Assault
Gambling.
False pretenses
Larceny.
Peace
Miscellaneив
Violating liquor law.
Total..
9
161
S
31
396
140
230
34
1,000
The Foreman's Report.
In his report for the jury Mr. Mark O.
Shriver, the foreman, said:
"I beg to call your attention to several
matters that claimed our attention and
which we believe, if put in practice, would
be of benefit to all concerned. Of the many
cases that come before the grand jury we
find at least one-half of them of minor im
portance; these cases, we think, should have
been settled in the Police Court and not al-
lowed a jury trial We refer to such trivial
cases as drunkenness, disorderly conduct,
disturbing the peace, minor cases of as-
sault, theft of small articles of less than a
dollar in value. If these cases could be set-
tled by the police justice it would be a
great saving to the taxpayers and relieve
the Criminal Court very much.
"About three-fourths of all the cases that
come before the grand jury are negro cases.
Many of these are the result of a violation
of the civil and religious law, men and
women living together as man and wife
without any regard for the marriage tle.
"In order to aid the police in locating
stolen articles we thinkit would be wise to
have a prepared blank to give to every li-
censed dealer in second-hand goods, pawn-
brokers, junk dealers and require them to
make weekly reports to the police marshal
of every article they have purchased dur-
ing the week. giving a description of the
party who sold or pawned the goods. their
age, sex and color. Dealers in junk who
make large purchases need only report the
smaller articles bought and metals they
buy of less quantity than 500 pounds.
Perjury To Shield Offenders.
"Regarding the liquor cases that come be-
fore the grand jury, such as selling liquor
to minors, selling during prohibitive hours,
selling on Sundays, etc., we find it next to
Impossible to present, as perjury in most
cases is used to shield the offenders, both
by the patrons and the saloonkeepers. We
believe if the presentlaw was amended and
a law enacted with the following condi-
tions it would lessen the sale of liquor and
at the same time keep minors out of the
saloons and benefit all interested
"Saloons should be on the most public
streets The bar should be in the front
100m of the first floor of the house, facing
the street. The front of the house should
have plate-glass windows two-thirds the
height of the ceiling, being but one foot
from the floor, and two-thirds the width
of the room. Over the bar there should
be a light burning of at least 30 candle-
power, and this should be kept burning all
the time, so that passers along the street
could have an unobstructed view of the in-
Bide of the room, and always have the bar
In full view This we believe would be a
true temperance law and greatly benefit
the public.
"We think the law relating to wife-beat-
ing could be used to good effect, and, there-
fore, recommend that where the law ap-
plies it be enforced and the whipping post
be restored.
"We think it would be advisable to have
an expert accountant to examine the books
of the different institutions that receive
money from either the city or State and to
publish the same in our daily papers. Tax-
payers would be better satisfied if they
knew how their money was spent in caring
for the unfortunates committed to these
different institutions.
"A former employe of the House of Ref-
uge made charges of harsh and cruel treat-
ment of the boys confined in this institu-
tion. We had some who were alleged to
have been maltreated summoned before us.
also the president and other officers, and
are pleased to state that the charges were
not proved. We believe them false, if not
malicious.
At Cheltenham.
"By invitation of Rev. Thomas Broy-
drick we visited the Colored House of the
Good Shepherd, situated on the Calverton
road. The Sisters have 81 colored children
who have been committed to this institu-
tion by the city and State. These children
are required to do some work each day,
having a certain task allotted which must
be accomplished. Recreation is given every
day, their health and morals are carefully
cared for and every virtue instilled. The
house was clean and neat and is a credit to
the State and city. The chief occupation
of the inmates is laundry work, which
they are taught to do in a superior man-
ner. We think the most efficient houses of
correction are those which provide employ-
ment for their inmates, and if the direct-
ors of the different institutions would give
this matter serious consideration they
would assist the institutions to be self-sus-
taining and greatly help the inmates by
teaching them habits of industry.
"The room' assigned to the grand jury
has but one merit-its location. The ven-
tilation is bad, the acoustics are worse,
and the noise from the traffic on Calvert
street makes the room anything but suit-
able. The room should be adapted for the
use of the grand jury, and if this cannot
be done, then another room should be as-
signed them."
Commendation is extended to Mr. H. W.
Rodgers, the stenographer, for his efficient
work.
Committees Make Reports.
The various committees of the jury that
visited and investigated the institutions to
which they were assigned also made their
reports, and these were presented to the
Court with the general report. In many
cases other members of the jury accom-
panied the committees on their visits.
The committee on sanitation reported that
it found pressing necessity for measures
presented to different juries. The grand
jury room, it declared, is badly arranged,
the acoustics are bad, there being an echo
in the room and on account of the noise
from Calvert street the windows have to
be kept closed and the air becomes very of-
fensive,
Our city," the report continues, "wants
a. larger storage system for the drinking
water, which becomes muddy after heavy
rains and has to be used in that condition.
"The waterbeds supplying us should be
most carefully policed to prevent infection.
It is a shame that our drinking water is
ever contaminated by negligence and the
penalty is often disease, pestilence and
death. There is no portable filter worthy
of confidence in the hands of the average
layman. Our neighbor, Philadelphia, has
recently installed a filtration plant which
is claimed to be a success.
Need Of Sewerage.
"We all know the great need of a sewer-
age system, but the great trouble is to de-
cide on the best. There is urgent want of
a hospital for infectious diseases. It has
not been long since we were promised one
and the site selected. Alas! it proved to be
a mere shadow, and not a reality. We need
a better system of paving our streets and
alleys to render them smooth and to have
no ruts or deep holes to retain water and
refuse matter to decay and pollute the at-
mosphere. Cobblestones should be rele-
gated to ancient history."
Charles H. Cockey was chairman of the
committee. The other members were Rich-
ard. T. Martin, Alexander F. Murdoch,
John H. Winkelman and Ignatius Smith.
The committee which visited the House
of Correction found that the new wing be-
Ing built is very much needed for prober
Reconimodation of the prisoners, and also
recommended the provision of a better
sewerage system. The committee reported
that there, were 398 male and 39 female
prisoners in the institution on August 20,
the date of the visit. The manufacturing
departments, said the committee, are under
excellent control and management and the
general condition of the prisoners seemed
to indicate good care and treatment.
St. Mary's Industrial School for Boys
was reported to be in excellent condition,
and special praise was given to the print-
ing department. There were 481 boys in
the institution the day the committee called.
Warm commendation is bestowed upon
Brother Dominic for his work of supervi-
sion and direction.
At The Penitentiary.
The committee that visited the peniten-
tiary reported it to be in first-class condi-
tion. "The first impressions created," the
committee said, "are of the absolute secur-
ity and cleanliness, as well as in the re-
duction of danger from fire to the lowest
point. From interviews had with prisoners
and by general observation we became im-
pressed with the fact that the board of di-
rectors have been most fortunate, as well
as judicious, in obtaining and retaining the
services of Mr. John F. Weyler, the very
efficient warden."
The committee that visited Springfield
State Hospital, Mount Hope Retreat, Spring
Grove Asylum, the House of Good Shep-
herd, Industrial School for Colored Girls.
Bayview Asylum, House of Refuge for
Boys, Female House of Refuge and City
Jail reported them to be generally in good
condition and well managed.
Increase Of Boys In Jail.
The committee that visited the jail pro-
nounced it to be overcrowded and empha-
sized the need of a new structure. "We
regret to see the large increase in the num-
ber of boys under 16 years old." the com-
mittee states. "This increase has occurred
since the Juvenile Court went into opera-
tion, about the middle of June. At that
time there were three boys in jail; now
there are 10.
Relative to the Female House of Ref-
uge, the committee visiting it said: "It
cannot be too strongly emphasized that re-
cent legislation made a radical and critical
mistake when it fixed the age limit of girls
placed in reformatories, such as this insti-
tution, at 18 years The years between 18
and 21 are the critical ones in the definite
fixation of character in girls, and it is
in this period that the very highest good
and best possible Influence of the institu-
tion should be exerted as previous to 1900
such had been. Now this influence is lost.
The compulsory closing of the cottage is
also another serious drawback." The com-
mittee recommends provision for a gymna-
slum and that the city appropriate at least
$5,000 a year for the institution.
For New House Of Refuge.
At the House of Refuge for Boys the
committee visiting it recommended provi-
sion of fire-escapes and that the present
properties be sold and a more desirable
location de bought farther out and new
buildings erected.
The jury, one of the members said, was
harmonious in all of its deliberations.
Purses of money were presented to Mrs.
Malone, the matron, and Mr. Rogers, the
stenographer.
The jury was composed of Messrs Mark
O. Shriver, foreman: James Clendenin, as--
sistant foreman; Leonard M. Levering,
James S. Reese. Ignatius Smith. John W.
King. Charles F. Ringgold. John Aftung,
Alexander F. Murdoch. William H Scott.
Robert M. Welch, Charles H. Cocker.
Emile Caye. Robert L. Stevens, George C.
Morrison. James King. Joseph J. Janner.
Moses Daniel, Richard T. Martin. James A.
Harris. James Owens, John H. Winkelman
and John J. Jackson.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.