INSPECTED BY MR. GRIFFITH
Says Colored House Of Reformation
Is Doing Well.
Mr. Goldsborough S. Griffith. president
of the Maryland Prisoners' Aid Association.
has just returned from a visit of inspec
tion to the Colored House of Reformation,
at Cheltenham, Prince George's county.
and yesterday made the following report
on the fastitution:
1
"I was much gratified with the evidences
upon all sides that earnest efforts are bei
ing made by the superintendent. Mr. J. E.
Dorsey, and the assistant superintendent,
Mr. John B. Pyles, and other helpers to
make the insilention a blessing to the State.
There are now in the institution 167 boys.
During the past two years the numbers:
has been reduced by parole to parents of
those whose conduct had so improved as to
warrant it, and 48 have been placed out to
responsible farmers, who have agreed to
deposit In bank a certain amount annually. |
subject to the order of the boy when he
becomes of age.
"There are 700 acres of land. 400 of which
are under cultivation. There are 360 acres
of timber. The land is of fair quality, and
is being steadily improved. The crops pro-
duced are better than those of surrounding 'l
farms. So far as possible the boys are
being instructed in farming. The farmer
in charge is a most capable, up-to-date
young man: but with only one assistant it
is not possible for him to give the neces-
sary attention to instructing the boys.
There is general demand for farm labor in
this and other States, and no hoy, properly
instructed in farming, need leave the in-
stitution to become an idler. From 60 to
TO of the smaller boys have been employed
In caning chairs. This has been of but Ilt-
the profit to the institution and will be of
but little benefit to the boys in after years.
"There are four schools attached to the
institution. A careful examination of these
revealed satisfactory progress, especially
in No. 2. under Mr. Fred Williams, and
No. 5. under Mrs. Alice Mitchell: these are
the highest grades. Mrs. Mitchell is the
only colored teacher there, and is very pro
ficient.
"The Sunday-school which I organized
soon after the institution was establisbed
has been maintained ever since, and under
Mr. J. E. Dorsey is in a better condition
than ever before. The introduction of the
merit system has had a salutary effect on
the deportment of the boys. Four night
watchmen have been employed, and a vis-
itor to visit the homes to which boys are
paroled, also to inspect the homes of appli-
cants before boys are sent."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.