William Graham's Will.
The will of William Graham, admitted
to probate in the Orphans' Court yester-
day, leaves all his property in trust for the
benefit of his unmarried daughters, with
the privilege to them of occupying as a
home his dwelling, 1220 North Caroline
street, and using all its contents. The
trust is to cease when all the daughters
are married or dead. The estate is then
to be divided equally among all of Mr.
Graham's children, the children of any de-
ceased son or daughter taking their par-
ent's share.
Letters on the estate were granted to
Mr. Graham's son, William G. W. Graham,
who was named as trustee and executor
without bond.
The will was executed May 21, 1897. The
testator died May 22 last.
Notes From The Courts.
James Kirby, a 16-year old colored boy,
was convicted in Part 2 of the Criminal
Court sesterday of attempting to snatch
the pocketbook of Mrs. Carrie Wolf, 1836
Druid Hill avenue, on May 23 last. Kirby
was under parole when the offense was
committed. Judge Wright said he could
not send the boy to Cheltenham and it
would not do to turn him out on the street.
Bertha Tuttle, 704 North Eutaw street,
was granted an absolute divorce yesterday
from Albert V. Tuttle on the ground of un-
faithfulness. They were married Septem-
ber 10, 1803, and separated May 1, 1902,
having one child, a boy, 6 years old, who
was awarded to the custody of Mrs. Tut-
tle. The decree provides that Mr. Tuttle
shall pay Mrs. Tuttle $13 a month for the
support of the child during his minority.
Orlando Weeks pleaded guilty in the
United States District Court yesterday of
mailing an indecent letter and a scurrilous
postal card in Baltimore on April 2 last,
and was sentenced to 30 days in jail. The
letter was directed to Mrs. Maggie Wil-
Hamson, 235 West Eighteenth street, Phil-
adelphia.
Michael Wright, a contractor and build-
er, 570 Laurens street, made an assignment
for the benefit of creditors yesterday. J.
Henry Baker, trustee under the deed,
bonded for $1,000
1
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.