SAYS CRIME DECREASES
Grand Jury Reports Through
Mr. David Hutzler.
sult from a fire or panic if the patrons of
these places would only use ordinary cool-
ness and judgment.
Other Reports.
The committee on the House of Reforma-
tion for Colored Boys, at Cheltenham,
Prince George's county, Md., expressed the
regret in their report, that the managers
JUDGE STOCKBRIDGE PRAISES of the institution are compelled to reduce
Foreman Hutzler Entertains Fel-
low-Jurors At Hotel Rennert And
Receives A Testimonial.
The grand jury for the January term, of
watch Mr. David Hutzler was foreman,
finished its work and was finally dis-
charged yesterday after handing the cus-
tomary reports to Judge Stockbridge in the
Criminal Court. No reference was made
In any of the reports to the gambling in-
vestigation made by the grand jury during
Its term. A number of recommendations
were made.
Mr. Hutzler read the main report and
Mr. George A. Pope read the report of the
committee on the penitentiary, of which
he was chairman. None of the other com-
mittee reports was read.
In discharging the grand jury with the
thanks of the court Judge Stockbridge re-
ferred especially to the statement in the
main report that a comparatively small
amount of crime was found to exist in the
city. "The city is growing rapidly," Judge
Stockbridge said, "but crime is not increas
ing here in proportion to the increase in
population. The records of this court show
not only that there has not been an in-
crease but that there has been a slight
diminution in the number of indictments
in the past five years. This condition, which
is an anomalous one in some respects, is
due to two things. One is the unusual
freedom of this city from crime. The other
is the wise discrimination shown by grand
Juries. I know of no city which shows
such an annual diminution in the number
of indictments."
In concluding, Judge Stockbridge sald
that most of the recommendations made in
the reports will require legislative action
In order to be carried out. In this connec-
tion he referred to the organization formed
some years ago by those who had served
on grand juries. Judge Stockbridge recom-
mended that the members of the retiring
grand jury take steps to bring their recom-
mendations before the Legislature at the
meeting next year.
Mr. Hutzler's Report.
The following is the report read by Mr.
Hutzler:
To His Honor Judge Henry Stockbridge, Crim
inal Court of Baltimore, Md.:
It is with pleasure we present a detailed report
of the number of cases considered during the Jan-
nary term, also the reports of the committees, which
were appointed to visit and investigate various in-
stitutions. Each institution was visited by the com-
mittee; and in nearly all cases this inspection was
supplemented by a visit by the entire grand jury.
These reports justify us in congratulating the city
on its excellent eleemosnary institutions, and the
good work they perform.
We find the amount of crime exceedingly small,
and decidedly below the average, for a city the size
of Baltimore; this being due to good citizenship,
the influence of the various moral teaching institu-
tions, to a most excellent police force and an ideal
judiciary.
The number of colored cases brought to our notice
seams out of proportion to the white and black pop-
ulation. No doubt heredity and environment are
marked factors in this disproportion, but is it not
aggravated by the delusive promises of immunity
from the penalties of law by those having sinister
nlterior motives? Herein lies a great future dan-
ger, requiring prompt and discriminating action.
The guilty should be severely punished and drastic
measures adopted to prevent perverting our less in-
telligent citizens. If, however, these excess cases
indicate normal conditions, then it is obvious we
must look to the schoolmaster, not the police for a
remedy.
The matter of taking affidavits over the telephone
was carefully considered, and the prompt action of
your Honor had the desired salutary effect.
Public Improvements.
The Sanitary Committee reports the early comple-
tion of a smallpox hospital. The need of an infec-
tious hospital has been a long-felt want, solicited by
the medical authorities 'and the boards of trade
over a decade. Why should it require years to se-
cure a needed city improvement? If a private cor-
poration does wrong, public clamor demands prompt
remedial action, yet to municipal shortcomings it
patiently submits.
A city supplies water pronounced by the highest
accredited authorites as unhealthy.
A legislature defeats a coveted sewerage bill,
needed to prevent infection and disease.
Consistency on the part of the public would de-
mand and insist on the city furnishing pure water.
It would accentuate and persistently exact of the
State, on all matters of strictly municipal interest,
local autonomy.
The affairs of the city should be managed in a
business-like way; every want, after favorable con-
sideration, should be promptly acted on, a director
should see that all subordinates faithfully execute
their duties and an auditor should compare, criti-
cise and adjust all accounts of the various depart-
ments, with a view to economic and satisfactory
results.
We fear incapable employes are not disciplined.
We believe the new Charter-which has done so
much to improve our city government-is evaded.
The expending of large amounts in decisions just a
trifle under the legal figures, to avoid public bids.
is an evasion of the new Charter, which if not
strenuously prohibited may lead to serious abuse.
The "cocaine" habit promises to be a serious evil.
It is practiced by those incapable of knowing that
its continued use must result in mental and physi-
cal wreck. It is now in its incipiency, where legal
restriction as to the sale of this drug may arrest
its demoralizing progress.
Care Of The Insane.
There are at present 348 insane patients at Bay-
view. If these patients were placed at Springfield,
or any other State insane asylum, it would be a hu-
mane act, resulting in great benefit, and in accord
with the consensus of expert opinion.
Bayview could be used as a temporary reception
hospital for alcoholic, nervous and suspected insane
cases until the character of the case was clearly de-
Aned.
We appreciate the valuable and untiring services
of Mr. H. W. Rodgers, our stenographer, whose
notes must be a marked help to the court, as
they have been to us.
Statistics Of Work.
The following is a summary of the grand
Jury's work:
Cases considered:
the number of inmates on account of in-
sufficient means. They recommended more
liberal appropriations by the city and State.
The system and discipline of the institu-
tion were commended.
The committee on the Female House of
Refuge found that institution in splendid
condition. The report states that the com-
mittee was entertained "with several beau-
tiful songs" by the inmates. The report
also states that "the voices of some of the
girls are really a wonder." The removal
of the sign on the fence of the institution
is recommended.
The committee on the jail recommended
in their report a new building, that all
prisoners be compelled to work and earn
at least the cost of their maintenance if
physically and mentally capable and that
a school be established for the youthful
prisoners.
A house of detention for juvenile offend-
ers of both sexes, especially colored boys,
Is recommended in the report of the com-
mittee on House of Correction.
The committee on the Male House of
Refuge was surprised to find that with
the antiquated buildings and obsolete facil-
itles of the institution such good results
are obtained. The committee agrees with
the management that this institution should
be moved beyond the city limits and the
present property disposed of.
Immediate steps for the erection of one
large or two small buildings for the Indus-
trial Home for Colored Girls, at Melvale,
Baltimore county, are recommended in the
report of the committee on that institution.
The committee on sanitation states in its
report that its investigation into the sani-
tary condition of the city reflects great
credit upon the able and efficient manage-
ment of the Health Department.
The Springfield State Hospital is com-
mended in the committee report as the
model institution of its kind in the State,
and probably in the country.
Exchanges Of Courtesies.
Before going into court to be finally dis-
charged the members of the grand jury
held a pleasant social session in their room.
Mr. Hutzler presented each of his fellow-
jurors and a number of the court officials
with a handsome silver matchbox. Each
matchbox was engraved with the mono-
gram of the recipient. Mr. Harry W. Rod-
gers, stenographer of the grand jury, was
presented with a heavy monogram gold
ring by the grand jurors.
Early in the afternoon Mr. Hutzler en-
tertained his fellow-jurors and a number
of court officials at dinner at the Hotel
Rennert. The floral decorations of the
table were handsome, the set pieces being
representations of the Battle Monument
and the scales of Justice. Among those
present besides the grand jurors were Judge
Stockbridge, Mr. Henry J. Broening, Clerk
of the Criminal Court, and Mr. Harry W.
Rodgers, the grand jury stenographer.
State's Attorney McLane was invited to be
present, but was unable to attend.
During the dinner the following testimo-
nial, handsomely engrossed and framed, was
presented Mr. Hutzler:
[Testimonial.]
The undersigned members of the grand jury for
the January term, 1903, assembled in this last meet-
ing, are now to sever the connection which has held
us together during the past four months in most
pleasant personal relations We carry away regrets
at parting and with mutual esteem and warmest
wishes for the welfare of each individual member.
We especially here express our hearty appreciation
of the services of our foreman, Mr. David Hutzler,
which have been characterized by his promptne-s
and regularity in attendance; diligence and energy in
conducting the business of the city; large sense of
fairness, associated with justice, in its dealings with
offending law-breakers, always tempered by the
promptings of his warm sympathy for the unfortu-
nate; his untiring patience in developing evidence of
the witnesses; his earnest efforts to reconcile mis-
guided complainants and to rescue juvenile delın-
quents from further criminality, and his uniforu..
courtesy and amiable manner with impartial de-
meanor towards every member.
William Schwarz,
George A. Pope,
Jacob Frey,
Charles W. Linthicum,
William L. Shaw,
Jacob F. Williams,
Dr. Thomas Sudler,
John Hubert,
Charles M. Gordon,
Matthias Kiefer,
William W. Abrahams,
John C. Wrenshall,
Gilbert R. Walter,
Augustin J. Ryan,
William E. Tilghman,
Thomas Daily,
Edson M. Schryver,
John R. D. Bedford,
Frank Y. McDonald,
Charles H Webb,
C. Edward Cochrane.
The grand jury for the May term has been
summoned for Monday, when the term be-
gins.
Sheriff's docket..
353
Special docket...
54
Grand Jury docket....
....1,101
Total...
..1,511
Cases presented.
..1,134
Cases dismissed.
377
Cases tried in court..
439
Convicted...
357
Acquitted....
82
Classification of cases on grand jury docket:
Murder..
3
Assault...
109
Gambling...
11
False pretenses.
27
Larceny..
480
Peace....
115
Violation of liquor law.
22
Miscellaneous....
337
Total...
..1,104
Cases on grand jury docket:
Presented..
Dismissed...
765
333
Of these 557 were whites and 547 colored.
Cases on special docket:
Presented...
Dismissed..
Cases on Sheriff's docket:
Presented..
Dismissed...
49
Б
319
34
The grand jury summoned 3,672 witnesses.
Report On Penitentiary.
The committee on the penitentiary stated
In their report, read by Mr. Pope, that in
their judgment that Institution is fulfilling
its purpose wisely and without a flaw in its
conduct in the two aspects which they think
a penal institution should be considered,
namely, for the good of the prisoners who
are enduring the deprivation of liberty as a
punishment and of the State. The commit-
tee earnestly commended the suggestion
Warden Weyler that the surplus earned by
the institution should, instead of being paid
to the State, be annually placed in a sink-
of
ing fund in keeping of the board of direct-
ors, to be used for rebuilding some of the
older structures and for renewals of the
bollers, machinery, etc., as will in time be
required, as well as to purchase new and
Im, oved appliances that may be needed in
the future.
Exits From Theatres.
In the judgment of the committee on ex-
Its from public buildings there are ample
provisions for the rapid egress of the pa-
trons of all the theatres and large halls of
the city. The following table was prepared
by the committee as the result of their in-
vestigation to show the time required to
der normal conditions:
empty the various places of amusement un-
Number Time
Theatre.
of
required
people. to empty.
Ford's Opera House...
1,817 54 minutes
Academy of Music.........
1,860
64 minutes,
Chase's Theatre....
1,369
54 minutes
Auditorium...
1,050
6 minutes
New Empire Theatre.
400
44 minutes
Music Hall...
full
4 minutes
Holliday Street Theatre........ 1,600
34 minutes
Monumental Theatre....
...........775 4.. minutes
In view of these facts the committee
stated there should not be any serious re
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.