Echo Of The Jamison Case.
The attachment taken out by Samuel H.
Selfer against the Board of Police Commis-
sloners to obtain possession of $100 found
on Mrs. Mary Dill Jamison when she was
arrested on the charge of passing bogus
checks was quashed yesterday by Judge
Phelps in the Superior Court. Mr.. Selfer's
attachment was based on a check for $450
which had been passed on him by Mrs.
Jamison. The Court ruled that funds in the
hands of police officials may not be attached.
Mrs. Jamison pleaded guilty and was let
off with a light sentence.
No Place For Colored Youths.
The work of the Juvenile Courtis greatly
hampered by the lack of some place to
send the many colored boys who are brought
before it. This is the opinion of Judge
Heuisler, who presides over the court and
who has well-defined Ideas of the work it
should do.
At present there is no place to send the
colored juvenile offenders except to jail.
Judge Heuisler does not want to commit
them to that institution, but he is com
pelled to do so in some cases. The Colored
House of Reforination at Cheltenham is
crowded and because of its great distance
from the city it is not convenient to commit
boys awaiting trial to that institution.
Receivers For O'Neill & Fitzgerald.
Frederick J. Singley and James J. Mc-
Namara were yesterday appointed by con-
sent receivers for the firm of O'Neill &
Fitzgerald, manufacturers of porter and'
ale, their bond being for $1,000. Daniel
O'Neill and John Fitzgerald were the mem-
bers of the firm. The appointment of re-
ceivers was applied for in Circuit Court
No. 2 on Friday by Mr. Singley, who is
trustee in bankruptcy of Mr. O'Neill. It
was alleged in the bill of complaint, among
other things, that the firm is hopelessly In-
solvent. Mr. Fitzgerald fled an answer
yesterday admitting the allegations in the
bill of complaint.
Thomas T. Woodland's Will.
The will of Thomas Theodore Woodland,
admitted to probate in the Orphans' Court
yesterday, bequeaths $50 to St. Peter Cla-
ver's Church (colored) and $25 to St. Fran-
cis Xavier's Church, colored, for masses for
the repose of his soul. The balance of the
estate is to be held in trust by Charles
Frederick Woodland, brother of the testn-
tor, who was also constituted executor,
without bond.
The net income is to be pald Sarah Jane
Woodland, widow of the testator, as long
as she lives, or until she marries again. If
she remarries she is only to get $1 of the
estate under the will. If the widow mar-
ries again and one or more of the testator's
four children die before reaching the age
of 21 years, Rose Regina Braxton, niece of
the testator, is to get the share of one child.
In the event of the widow dying without'
marrying again the entire estate is to be
divided among the testator's four children
when the youngest is 21 years old.
The will was executed February 26 last.