PP
SITE FOR CITY HOSPITALS
Officials Agree On Land Near
Bayview Asylum.
150 ACRES TO COST $50,000
Plan Is To Erect Hospital For Infec-
tious Disenses And Home For Con-
sumptives Near Each Other.
The Health Department officials have
notified members of the Board of Esti-
mates that certain land in the vicinity of
Bayview Asylum upon which the city has
an option will be acceptable as a site for
a hospital for infectious diseases. In con
nection with this property it came to light
yesterday that there is a broad, far-reach-
Ing plan in process of development by
which it is hoped to erect upon the land a
colony of buildings for the care of the sick
and other charges of the city. The matter
Is, still in embryo, and has been kept ex-
ceedingly quiet.
Among the more Important buildings
contemplated is a home for consumptives,
to be built, entirely out of iron and glass,
largely upon the general plan of a con-
servatory.
It was indicated yesterday that a new
ordinance. would shortly be prepared for
Introduction in the City Council repealing
by Implication the present infectious-dis-
cases hospital ordinance, which is perfected
legislation, and providing that the hospital
shall be erected upon the city's land near
Bayview.
City Comptroller's Statement.
A week ago City Comptroller Smith, with
other members of the board, went over the
property for the purpose of gauging its
availability for the erection of the various
buildings contemplated. The site which is
now being considered for the infectious-
diseases hospital was carefully gone over,
and he says that it appears to him to be an
Ideal spot. It is a considerable distance
from Bayview itself, and 'is entirely iso-
lated from any surrounding buildings.
Later a conference over the matter was
held with Health Commissioner Bosley and
Assistant Health Commissioner Jones, and
yesterday it was announced that they had
_notified Mr. Smith that the site was in
every way acceptable.
Condon Lot Not An Obstacle.
The fact that the city is now engaged in
a legal contest in which the owners of the
Condon property, on the Reisterstownroad,
are trying to force the city to take that
lot, it is held, will not interfere with the
new plan at all, and it is argued that the
Infectious-diseases hospital is more nearly
an accomplished fact now than it has ever
been. Whether or not the city is forced to
take the Condon property, the hospital can-
not be erected there, as there is an act of
the Legislature forbidding it.
*
The property near Bayview which the
city is to buy contains in all about 150
acres, and $50,000 is appropriated in the
ordinance of estimates for its purchase.
Home For Consumptives.
Immediately adjoining Bayview Asylum
grounds and between it and the site for the
infectious-diseases hospital is the site upon
which it is hoped to erect the home for con
sumptives.
Comptroller Smith said yesterday that
the Board of Charities and Corection had
had this project in mind for some time, and
an effort would be made to accomplish it
next year. The plans and specifications
will be prepared and the effort made later
- to get the money. Physicians at the asy-
lum, Mr. Smith said, are strongly in favor
of the new building, and claim that it is
not only bad for the other patients at Bay-
view, but is unhealthy for the physicians
attached to the institution to have to live
-in the building with the large number of
consumptives who are there.
-
Of Iron And Glass.
The Idea of the Board of Charities and
Correction, according to Mr. Smith, is to
erect a large building of iron and glass,
which will give the consumptive inmates
of the asylum every advantage of sunshine
and an open-air life: The building, It is
claimed, could be so constructed as to be
entirely warm and comfortable, and yet
be adapted to the most modern treatment
of persons afflicted with this disease. The
Idea is to have as little woodwork as possi-
ble about the building, and to surround it
with ground enough to give the patients
plenty of opportunity for exercise.
Home For Boys.
In addition to this, Mr. Smith says there
is plenty of room on the property which the
city is to buy, to erect the parental home
for the care of a certain class of boys now
at. the Colored House of Reformation at
Cheltenham. The Board of Charities and
Correction has already suggested the erec-
tion of such a home to the Board of Esti-
mates, and a committee has been appointed
to look further into the matter and make a
report as to the number of boys it would
be necessary to accommodate, and other
details of the scheme.
Bayview Inmates To Work.
Mr. Smith states that a part of the new,
property will be apportioned off for farm
Ing purposes, and will be worked by the in-
mates of Bayview. This, too, is part of the
general plan which is under way, and it is
urged that the employment of the inmates
in some work of this kind will improve
conditions in the institution.
The plans for the infectious disease hos-
pital are to erect a number of cottages, to-
gether with an administration building, In-
stead of having one large building. Each
cottage will be devoted to persons who
have contracted the same infectious dis-
case,
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.