GLOVES FOR WORKMEN.
Woman Moved To Pity By Suffering
Amid The Ruins.
The sight of men working at the brick
piles in the burned district with bare hands,
chapped and stiff with the cold, has aroused
the compassion of a leader of The Sun, who
makes a suggestion in the following letter:
Messrs. Editors: While walking through
the burned district the other day I noticed
the large number of laborers at work with
bare hands. In this cold weather the hands
become numb and are easily cut by the
bricks, mortar and jagged edges of iron
and wood. Their hands are no doubt in
an-awful condition.
I would suggest to the women of our city
who have the leisure to devote a few min-
-utes of it to making gloves for these men.
No matter what the material, so it is heavy,
or how crude the workmanship, they will be
a protection. The Charity Organization So-
ciety will, no doubt, see that they are dis-
tributed.
CRIPPLED BY THE FIRE
Union Protestant Infirmary's Endow-
ment Reduced.
It is said that practically all the funds
and endowments of the Union Protestant
Infirmary were in warehouses in the burned.
district and the institution will be seriously
- crippled by the fire.
It may be necessary to close the new
building entirely and limit the scope of its
work to 15 beds. It has beerr suggested
that some of the offers of financial assist-
ance received by the city be accepted and
applied to this and other hospitals which
have been crippled by the fire.
Cheltenham Directors Chosen,
A meeting of the members and subscribers
of the House of Réformation for Colored
Boys was held yesterday afternoon in the
office of the Supervisor of City Charities at
City Hall.
The following members of the board of di-
rectors for the ensuing year were elected:
Messrs. G. S. Griffith, Edward Stabler, Jr.,
Joseph J. Janney, Henry S. Dulaney, Thos.
E. Conor, C. C. Magruder, Edward Mar-
kell, Hon. John Hubner, Dr. W. H. Gib-
bons, Edward Stinson, N. G. Grasty and
Rev. George F. Bragg, Jr. Gen. T. J. Shry-
ock and Mr. Harry S. Cummings will be
the members on the part of the city and
there are two members to be appointed by
the Governor. The board of directors will
meet March 3 for organization and election
of officers.
Found Dead In His Room.
A man supposed to be J. Jackson, about
50 years old, was found dead in his room at
the lodging house of Mrs. L. R. Eckert, 322
North Calvert street, yesterday afternoon.
The man registered at the lodging house
Saturday and complained of being ill. Cor-
oner Martin is investigating.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.