TEACHERS TO GET THEIR PAY
Board of Estimates Refuses To Give
More Money To Cheltenham.
The Board of Estimates yesterday appro-
priated the sum of $4,300 for the payment
of the salaries of the public school teach-
ers of Group M, whose money has been
tied up through the failure of the City Trust
and Banking Company.
As stated in THE SUN yesterday morning,
the matter was brough before the board by
City Counellman Heintzeman, who urged
that the money be loaned in order that the
teachers might be relieved, many of them
being in need of the money.
City Solicitor Bryan made the motion that
the money be appropriated, stating that
the need of the teachers was an emergency
that justifled such action, and pointing out
that the City Council, having adjourned for
summer, could not now do anything in the
matter.
No opposition to advancing the money
was made by any member of the board. and
is was provided that the city will receive
back whatever money is recovered from the
original deposit made by Group Principal
Andrew J. Pietsch with the City Trust and
Banking Company. There are about 139
persons interested in the matter, who were
anxious to see the board advance the money.
The board declined to grant a request for
additional money for the House of Refor-
mation for Colored Boys at Cheltenham,
made by Mr. N. G. Grasty, of the board of
managers. Mr. Grasty made a plea for
more money on the ground that it was ab-
solutely needed to heat the building and to
keep it clean. He declared that a crisis
was at hand in the affairs of the institu-
tion, and as an instance of this said he had
just received the resignation of Gen. Thos.
J. Shryock as president of the board because
he would not be connected with an institu-
tion in which there were not proper facili-
tles for cleanliness and warmth.
Mr. Grasty explained that for the good
of the institution General Shrrock should
not be allowed to withdraw from it, and
that he was greatly needed in the manage-
ment.
Mayor McLane and the other members of
the board agreed that General Shryock's
resignation would be a blow, but did not
think the emergency was great enough to
warrant an additional appropriation, par-
ticularly as the contingent fund of the
board is not now more than $18,000 and the
year is only half gone. The Mayor agreed
with Mr. Grasty that the disposator colored
boys was a great problem and that Chelten-
ham is a valuable institution of its kind.
but thought it better to wait until the emer-
gency grew more acute before approprinting
any more money. The Mayorsald he thought
perhaps there were too many institutions al-
together, and that if the fall could be made
sufficiently large to accommodate all de-
mands the community might be better off.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.