BOY MURDERER IS COOL Paroled tu the care of the society. He said
"As well as I can remember I never saw
the boy before today, when I saw him at
Not Worried By The Position In detective headquarters. Our records do
Which He Is Placed.
not show that he was ever paroled by the
society, and I am quite sure that I never
came in contact with him before. In fact,
AMUSES VISITORS TO CELL from his appearance, I don't think I should
Charles Jones, Who Acknowledged
Killing Miss Link, Has Nothing To
Say In Court, But Lively Afterward
Charles Jones, colored, alias "Black Char-
lie," the 12-year-old confessed murderer of
Miss Caroline Link, who died August 30
from the effects of a brutal assault at the
hands of the boy, was yesterday commit-
ted to jall for the action of the Criminal
Court without bail by Justice J. McKenny
White, at the Juvenile Court, on the charge
of "assaulting and striking Caroline Link
with a club on August 28, 1903, thereby
causing her death at the Maryland Univer-
sity Hospital on August 30."
In addition to the charge of murder Jones
was committed for court on the charges of
the larceny of a bicycle valued at $15, the
property of G. Lloyd Rogers, 1207 MeCul-
loh strect, and the larceny of $20 in cur-
rency, the property of Mr. D. Wallace
White, 406 North Paca street.
James Thomas, colored. 15 years old, who
lives at 750 Vine street, and Harry Young,
colored, 14 years old, whose home is at 21
North Amity street, were also arraigned
THE 12-YEAR-OLD MURDERER
CHARLES JONES
on the charge of the larceny of the moner.
and ther, as well as Jones, were commit-
ted for court.
Thomas and Young will also be held as
State's witnesses in the murder case against
Jones, so that in the event that the pair
are acquitted of the charge of larcens ther
will still remain in custody until after the
murder trial.
Jones The Most Unconcerned.
Of the three prisoners who faced Justice
White yesterday morning the most uncon-
cerned was Jones. With the same listless-
ness that has characterized the young ne-
gro's actions ever since he confessed to
baving been Miss Link's slayer, Jones faced
Justice White yesterday morning, and dur-
ing the testimony of the officers the boy
sat in the prisoners dock carelessly gazing
at the persons and objects about him.
When the Magistrate, at the conclusion
of the testimony of the officers, asked him
if he had anything to say, at the same time
reminding him that anything he might say
could be used against him during his trial,
the boy, singularly enough, promptly re-
plied in the negative, answering in a stolld
manner: "No, sah."
Shortly after 9 o'clock yesterday morn-
ing Jones, Thomas and Young were taken
from the Western Police Station to the
Juvenile Court in the patrol wagon by De-
tectives Bradley, Hall, O'Donnell, Dick
and Kratz. A few minutes after the offi
cers entered the courtroom with their pris-
oners the case was called, the hearing be
ing merely the formality as required by
law of establishing a bona-fide case before
a police magistrate. The statements of the
detectives were, in substance, what has al-
ready been printed in THE SUN, the offi-
cers recounting the story of the murder.
their parts in working up the case and
Jones' subsequent confession to them and
to Marshal Farnan and Captain of Detect-
ives A. J. Pumphrey. Detective Tod Hall
was the first witness called, and his state-
ments were merely affirmed by his brother
officers,
What The Officers Said.
Sergt. Patrick F. Tierner and Patrolman
James L. Roche, both of the Western dis-
trict, who, acting under orders from Cap-
tain Fullem, arrested the boys, testified to
their arrest. Thomas was the first of the
trio arrested, and it was on the informa-
tion of Thomas, implicating Young and
Jonesin the Paca street till-tapping charge,
that the two others were arrested. The
two officers testified that at the time they
arrested the trio they had no idea that
Jones was in any way implicaed in the
Link murder.
As a matter of fact, according to the
statements of the officers yesterday, while
they had a suspicion from a conversation
among the three overheard in a cell at the
Western Station House that one of them
knew something about the Link case, thes
at no time suspected the smallest of the
three-Jones. On the contrary they firmly
believed that Thomas, the oldest and larg
est of the group, was the one from whom
some information of the woman's slayer
could be gotten. This belief the officers
clung to up to a few hours before Jones
finally unbosomed hlmseif to Marshal Far-
nan and Captain Pumphrey:
Antics Behind The Bars.
"Mistah, gimme a cig'rette."
Charlie Jones, the smallest murderer ever
behind the bars in Baltimore, thrust ous
black hand through the polished bars of
cell No. 3 at the Central Police Station yes-
terday afternoon toward a curious visitor,
who had entered the place to get a look at
the criminal.
"Don't yo' gib dat black nigger any
smoke; gib hit to me!" sang out Harry
Young, alias "Happy Hooligan." 14 years
old, who occupled the adjoining cell,
The little black face peering through the
bars of No. 3 became distorted with rage
and the eyes rolled like balls of cotton as
he hurled epithets and profanity at his
yellow neighbor, who answered with de-
risive laughter, in which he was joined by
lank, lean Janes Thomas, in cell No. 5,
Young's partner in crime,
As soon as the noise subsided and "Black
Charlie" resumed his composure the irre-
pressible light-heartedness of bis race as-
serted itself, and the diminutive inurderer
began to climb up the bars of his cell. Clear
up to the celling he clambered, and then
he thrust both legs through the bars and
sat on the topinost horizontal bar, grin-
ning like a simian and making faces at the
little knot of officers who were amused
witnesses of the performances. Suddenly
letting go with his hands, the little negro
allowed his body to fall backward and
hung by his legs from the bar with his
head downward. After hanging in this in-
verted position for a few moments he went
through a perfect series of grinnastic per-
formances, displaying remarkable agility
and strength for a boy of his age and size.
Identification Mensurements.-
Jones was taken to the Bureau of Identi-
cation yesterday morning, where he was
photographed by Sergeant Casey, chief of
the bureau, and his assistant, Mr. William
Higgins. A copy of this photograph is re-
produced in THE SUN today.
Jones displayed the most intense interest
in the operation of having his "picter tuk,"
and expressed a wish to see the finished
photograph.
Sergeant Casey said that it would be use-
less to take the boy's Bertillon measure-
ments, as he would soon outgrow them.
For the benefit of science, however, the
Sergeant made a careful examination of
the youthful slayer of Miss Link, with the
following result:
Height, 4 feet 5% laches; weight, 77
pounds; eyes, dark maroon; hair, kinky;
complexion, dark brown; nose, rectilinear,
elevated at base, medium height; nostriis,
broad: forehead, medium height and width,
reeeding; lower lip, protruding; chin, re-
ceding; teeth, good; lobe of car, short and
"gulfed"-this is very unusual and is not
found once in 500 cases; arms, long and
bent inward at elbow-this is also unusual;
birthmark on left breast.
While the Sergeant would not commit
himself on the subject, it is said that the
"gulfed" lobe of the ear and the bent arms
denote animal nature.
Jones can both read and write, having
attended one of the public schools. He
says he was born near Baltimore, but ex-
actly where he cannot tell.
Jones and his two companions, Young
and Thomas, were taken over to jail yes-
terday afternoon.
"Appearance Of Bad Boy."
ever assume the responsibility of paroling
him. To be frank, he has the appearance
of being a very bad boy and one that would
be hard to manage. The object of the so-
ciety is not to coddle born criminals, but
to extend a helping hand to those who fall
through temptation and who are willing to
begin life anew."
Case Excites Interest.
The case of Jones has excited consider-
able interest among many persons in this
city who are in one way or another interest-
ed in the selence of criminology. Of more
than ordinary interest is the case of Jones
from the fact that the boy is to every ap
pearance a born criminal.
Although only 12 years old, he has during
the last month, it is charged, participated
in at least three crimes of a grave nature,
including this last one of murder, while
as early as 1809, when the boy was but 8
years old, he was before a magistrate on
the charge of the larceny of a toy wagon.
Twice in the following year he was be-
fore a magistrate, once on the charge of
stealing some books and writing paper and
the second time for disorderly conduct.
In 1901 he was before Justice Por at the
Western Police Station on the charge of
breaking a window with intent to steal.
Last February he was charged with the
larceny of a lot of hams.
An unusual circumstance in connection
with the criminal record of Jones is the
fact that, although he was known to the
police as a vicious boy and one who would
hardly hesitate to commit a wrong, he was,
up to the last time. Invariably dismissed of
the different charges.
Capt. G. W. Parker's Opinion.
Capt. George W. Parker, who, by reason
of the fact that he is secretary and agent
of the Society for the Protection of Chil-
dren from Cruelty and Immorality, comes
in close contact with the vicious, hardened
youthful element in this city probably
more than any other man, explained yes-
terday why Jones was dismissed so often
In the face of what was probably convine-
ing testimony of the boy's criminal tend-
ency.
"The boy." said Captain Parker: "was
no doubt dismissed so often because the
magistrates before whom he was arraigned
had no other alternative hut to either dis-
miss him or send him to jail. While there
is a colored reformatory in this State for
fractious colored boys, it is a hard matter
to have them committed there. I refer to
the House of Reformation for Colored Bors.
This institution has all along refused to
take colored boys from this city because,
I understand, they belleve the appropria-
tion from this city is insufficient. This fact
being known to the police magistrates, who
naturally consider the tender years of the
prisoner, they hesitate a long time before
committing the child to jail, the only other
available institution for colored boys, and
as a consequence mans who really do not
deserve any leniency are dismissed.
Should Have Been Sent To Jail.
"I do not hesitate to say that it would
have been far better had Jones, when his
true nature became known to the police,
been sent to jall. A hoy of Jones' type has
no right to be running the streets free, as
he is a serious menare to society. On the
other hand, from what I have seen of the
juvenile department of the city jail, the
prisoners do not come into contact with
the older prisoners, not even when brought
to the Instirution, and rigid discipline is
enforced at all times. This, I believe, in
a case like that of Jones, would have a
tendency to elevate the boy's moral charac-
ter rather than lower it.
"I am sorry to say that this city abounds
with just such dangerous types of colored
youth as that of which Jones is a fair ex-
ample. There certainly should be a suit-
able Institution established for them if
we can't get them in at Cheltenham, for
they are a serious menace to publie lte wel-
fare and unless something is done to check
it their type will continue to rapidly in-
crease numerically."
Rev. William C. Stoudenmire, agent of
the Maryland Prisoners' Aid Society, de
ples the statement that Jones was once
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.