TENNIS FINALS IN SIGHT
Hard Match Of Kerr And Brown At
Maryland Oval.
The tennis tournament at the Maryland
Athletic Club continued yesterday after-
noon in both singles and doubles at the
cval. The finals are in sight now and on
that account the playing is becoming very
fine and every point is being hotly con
tested.
The match between Messrs. Keir and
Brown for a place in the finals was won
by Mr. Kera, 7-9, 6-3, 7-5. Mr. Ken played
a very careful game and has very sue-
cessful at lobbing, which he practiced
throughout. Mr. Brown played Lard, but
was careless often enough to lose the
deersive points
Another interesting match was that be-
tween Dr. Busch and Mr. Barclay. Dr.
Busch, according to expectations, won, 6-2,
6-1. On Tuesday he had to play hard for
the first set with Mr Brooke, but he
wow easily over Mr. Barclay yesterday.
The Doctor is considered the ertwk tennis
mayer of the club and is expected to de-
feat the winner of the McGill-Bagby
match, in which event he will play Mι.
Keir in the finals for the cup But there
is enough uncertainty about this to make
the match Interesting.
Mr. Bagby defeated Mr. Downing, 6-0,
63, and Mr. McGill defeated Mr. Stroh-
manger, 2-6,6-4, 6-3
Messis. McGill and Dagby will play to-
day, the winner to play Dr. Busch.
In the doubles Messrs. Waite and Cole
defeated Messus. Bomes and Mason, 6-4,
6-1.
Dohertys Still Champions.
London, June 29 - In the tennis doubles
(championship) at Wimbledon today the
brothers Doherty, the holders, beat Smith
and Riseley, 6-1, 6-2, 6-4.
Far Ahead Of American Cricketers.
Jondon, June 20 - When starps were
drawn at the close of the serond day's
pray between the Cheltenham College and
Haverford (Pa) cricketers, the score was
Cheltenham 268 and Haverford 72 for six
wickets down.
MOTORCYCLE LIST GROWS
Two From Baltimore Races To Take
Part At Cambridge Meet.
The entry list for the motorcycles in the
coming series of automobile, motorcycle and
bicycle rares at Electric Park on July 4
promises to be very large Bob French
gives up motorcycling for automobiling
Other motorists will have a better chance
in the races. The Patterson Wheelmen
will enter its squad, including the motors
of Charles Ileisterman, George Thompson,
William Werner, Samuel Horney and Ges.
Dull.
Chie Thomas, the young amateur "boy
champion," will take Bob French's place
in the motor isces, and with Robert At-
kinson and William G. French and AG.
Belt, will represent the Yales on the track
This race will be on the nder of an
eliminating trial to determine the fastest
trio of motor racers for a Baltimore team
to race against the fastest machines in the
country at the meet of the l'ederation of
American Motoreselists at Cambridge, Md,
on July 9.
Dob French has entered in all the races
at Cambridge and will also make a strong
effort to win the time for the mile shaight.
away world's record trial.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.