THE CONDUCTOR'S SIDE
He Says Special Officer Could Show
No Authority.
Conductor George M. Smith, who runs
the train between Bowie and Pope's Creek
daily, writes to THE SUN that he did sep-
arate Special Officer Ray from a colored
boy, but avers that the boy was not a pris-
oner,
"Had he been a prisoner," says Mr. Smith,
"there could have been no separation under
the law, and every conductor on the Phila-
delphia, Baltimore and Washington rail-
road understands the law that an officer in
charge of prisoners has a right to accom-
pany a prisoner. Where a known officer has
a prisoner the question is never raised, but
special officers or others in charge of pris-
Toners are required to show some papers or
legal authority that they are in charge of
prisoners.
""Mr. Ray boarded the train at Chelten-
ham with a colored boy and was assigned
to the colored car. The officer claimed the
boy was, a prisoner and he had a right to
bring him in the car set apart for white
passengers. As conductor I told him it he
was a prisoner he could bring him in under
the law. Ray did not have anything to
show that the colored boy was his prisoner;
consequently he was separated from the
colored boy...
"White officers in charge of colored pris-
oners are always asked to take them in the
colored car, and have always done so with-
out question. Ray not only tried to diere-
gard the law, as he had nothing to show
the colored boy was his prisoner, not even
the uniform of the institution, but acted in
a very ungentlemanly manner and should
have been artented for disorderly conduct
both on the train and at the station at
Boe. As conductors are subject to a
fine under the law for not assigning passen-
gers to their proper cars, they must, of
course, be very careful, and are cautioned
by the company to live up to the spirit as
welbas the letter of the law.
officer, has raised the
question of taking colored prisoners in the
car with white people, and why these peo-
ple from the Cheltenham Reformatory, who
ask and receive State aid and aid from the
city, should want to take these dirty and
often half-dressed boys from the city in the
white card is more than any sensible man
can conceive. The law may be loosely
drawn, but it is working admirably, and
these people should, like us on the rail-
roads, give it a fair trial and try to carry
out the spirit and intention of the law.
"No, the Baltimore city police will have
no trouble with us. All they have to do is
to abide by the law. We will not arrest
Farnan need not be afraid
to let them come
than Bouthern Mary-
land. We think too much of our State po-
lice force to were them in Marlboro or La
Plata jall
T