Smallpox At Cheltenham?
Dr. Jun 5. Futon, secretary of me
Maryland State Medical Board, received a
telegram yesterday from Dr. W. II. Gib-
bons, the attending physician at the Col-
ored House of Reformation, at Chelten-
bam, Prince George's county, stating that
a colored boy at the Institution showed
symptoms of smallpox.
Dr. Fulton sent Dr. M. L. Price, a medi-
cal assistant of the State Board, to the in-
stitution to diagnose the case and take all
precautions to prevent the spread of the
disease.
According to the telegram the case, if it
is smallpox, is very mild.
Memorial To Professor Markland,
The principal feature of the closing exer-
cises of Public School No. 42, Broadway
and Bank street, which took place yester-
day morning, was the unvelling of a me-
morial to the late principal, William T.
Markland, who died October 27 last. The
memorial is a picture, five feet in length,
of Shoshane Falls, Idaho, and was placed
in the building by the teachers of Group В.
A brass tablet will be placed on the frame.
Professor Markland, who was 70 years old
when he died, had been principal of the
school for 15 years.
Episcopalians At Tolchester.
About 2,500 Episcopalians went to Tol
chester yesterday. The occasion was a ben-
eit for the congregation of the burnt
Church of the Messiah, to help rebuild the
church. The idea was conceived and car-
ried out by Mr. William Ackerman, of the
Prince of Peace Protestant Episcopal
Church, Walbrook. A committee assisted
him in carrying out the arrangements. A
goodly sum was realized by the sale of the
tickets.
Cane For Mr. George J. Obermann.
Mr. George J. Obermann, who resigned
the presidency of the Gottlleb-Bauern-
schmidt-Straus Brewing Company last
Wednesday, was presented yesterday with
a handsome gold-headed ebony cane by the
force employed in the office of the company
at Park avenue and Fayette streets.
presentation took place in the office of Mr.
W. O. Crawford, auditor of the company.
Mr. P. Donnelly acted as spokesman. Mr.
Obermann made a brief reply.
*
The
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.