BANK CLERKS ON EXCURSION
Go To Annapolis And Receive Many
Courtesies.
Baltimore Chapter, American Institute
of Bank Clerks, went on an excursion
down the bay to Annapolis yesterday.
The steamer Annapolis, which was char
tered for the occasion, left Light Strest
Pier No. 16 at 3.30 P. M. with about 600
people and arrived at Annapolis about 6
o'clock. Knight's Band was on board, and
through the efforts of Congressman Wach-
ter the Naval Academy Band gave a con-
cert on the campus for the excursionists
from 6.30 to 7.30. The party visited the
new buildings at the Naval Academy, and
through the courtesy of Governor War-
field the State buildings were kept open
for them. A crab supper was served at
Carvel Hall, and the steamer left Annapo-
lis about 8 o'clock, arriving in Baltimore
about 10.30 o'clock.
The object of the excursion was to pro-
vide a pleasant outing for the Lank clerks
and their friends and to raise funds for
the educational work of the chapter next
winter.
The committee in charge of the arrange-
ments consisted of A. Waller Morton
(chairman), Walter Koppelman, James D.
Garrett, James C. Fenhagen and Samuel
M. Reid. The officers of the chapter are:
Thomas B. Ewalt, president; Walter Kop-
pelman, vice-president; Walter F. McCo-
mas, secretary; Samuel M. Reid, treas-
urer.
SQRE ARMS AT CHELTENHAM
General Vaccination Follows Dis-
covery Of Smallpox Case.
Dr. Marshall L. Price, assistant to Dr.
John S. Fulton, secretary of the State
Board, of Health, went to the House of
Reformation for Colored Boys, at Chelten-
ham, Prince George's county, Friday to
investigate a report of a case of smallpox
in the institution. He found that a col-
ored boy 10 years old, who had been taken
there from the City Jail on June 4, had a
well-developed case of the disease. All of
the other inmates were vaccinated and the
patient was isolated.
The fact that the eruption appeared on
the 21st caused Dr. Helskell, the quarantine
physician, to say that he thought the boy
must have contracted the disease in this
city, as he was hardly in the institution
long enough for it to have developed if
contracted there.
A case of smallpox was gotten from the
jail the day the boy was taken from there.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.