THE KING OF DENMARK'S RIDE
Word was brought to the Danisu King
(Hurry')
That the love of his heart lay suffering,
And plued for the comfort his voice would
bring:
(Oh, ride as though you were firing!)
Better be loves each golden curt
On the brow of that Scandinavian girl
Than his rich crown jewels of ruby and
pearl;
And his Rose of the Isles is dying!
Thirty nobles saddled with speed,
(Hurry')
Each one mounting a gallant steed
Which he kept for battle and days of need;
(Oh, ride as though you were flying')
Spurs were struck in the foaming flank,
Worn-out chargers staggered and sank;
Bridles were slackened and girths were
burst;
But ride as they would, the King rode first,
For the Rose of the Isles lay dying!
His nobles are beaten, one by one;
(Hurry!)
They have fainted and faltered and home-
ward gone;
His little fair page now follows alone,
For strength and for courage trying,
The King looked back at that faithful
child;
Wan was the face that answering smiled;
They passed the drawbridge with clatter-
ing din,
Then he dropped; and only the King rode
in,
Where his Rose of the Isles lay dying!
The King blew a blast on his bugle horn;
(Silence!)
No answer came; but faint and forlorn
An echo returned on the cold gray morn,
Like the breath of a spirit sighing.
The castle portal stood grimly wide;
None welcomed the King from that weary
ride;
For dead, in the light of the dawning day,
The pale sweet form of the welcomer lay,
Who had yearned for his voice while dy-
ing!
The panting steed, with a drooping crest,
Stood weary.
The King returned from her chamber of
rest,
The thick sobs choking in his breast;
And, that dumb companion eyeing.
The tears gushed forth which he strove
to check,
He bowed his head on his charger's neck
steed that every berys didst str
ar

ANSWERS TO QUERIES
Information On A Variety Of Topics
Sought By Readers Of The Sun.
Subscriber. We are not in receipt of
the dally or total number of admissions,
which will be published in time.
Big B. In a three-handed game of forty-
five, when A has 4 points to make, B 20
and C 10 in order to win, and B bids 4 and
makes the trump, A plays low and makes
the 5, while C makes the 9 and game, A is
the winner.
Dixie. The only Southern States in
which the negroes outnumber the white
population are Mississippi and South Caro-
lina. The former, according to the census
of 1900, had 641,200 whites and 907,030
blacks; the latter, 557,807 whites and 782,-
321 persons of negro descent.
Miss L. N., City. The first "Gem" pub-
lished in THE SUN after the great fire of
February 7, 1904, was Bishop J. L. Spaid-
ing's "Adversity," a translation from the
German of Friedrich Heinrich Karl,
Freiherr de la Motte-Fouque," which ap-
peared on Tuesday, February 16.
Subscriber, Geo. W. K., Washington, D.
C-A complete file of Harper's Weekly, in-
cluding supplements, is found on the
shelves of the Enoch Pratt Free Library,
Mulberry, near Cathedral street, Baltimore
The Library of Congress no doubt possesses
also the complete series of this periodical
Workingman - Labor Dar, the first Mon-
day in September, is observed in all States
except Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi,
Nevada, North Dakota and Vermont. Only
three holidays are celebrated by all 45
States and the District of Columbia--
namely, July 4, Thanksgiving Day and
Christmas.
Old Subscriber, W. J. K, Shepherds-
town, W. Va well-constructed stone
house, specimens of which are not rare la
Maryland and the Virginias, may be built
as comfortable and healthy as any other
one of any other material There should
be a small air space between the plastering
and the wall Warm in winter and cool
in summer, this solid structure may be truly
called the owner's castle
RLM. Cumberland. The statue of
Liberty Enlightening the World, on Lib-
esty Island, in New York harbor, rises to
a total helght of 305 feet 11 inches above
low-water mark The statue itself is 131
feet high, and stands on a granite and con-
crete pedestal 155 feet high The statue is
of copper and was unvelled in 1886. The
tomb of Gen. U. S. Grant, Riverside Drive
and One hundred and Twenty-third street,
is 160 feet high It was dedicated on April
27, 1897.
Anne Arundel - The Maryland Demo-
cratic platform of 1893 contained the fol-
lowing passage referring to President Cleve-
land's administration. "We commend the
wisdom and patriotism which have marked
the administration of President Cleveland
since he entered upon the duties of his
office. We confidently believe that his ad-
ministration, acting upon the principles
which have controlled the policy of the
national Democratic party since its origin,
will greatly increase the prosperity of our
whole people"
Country-1. The House of Reformation
and Instruction for Colored Boys is at
Cheltenham, Prince George's county, Md.
It was founded by the late Mr. Enoch
Pratt. Address Mr. Joseph J. Janney, вес-
retary and general agent of the institution,
Eutaw street, corner Madison, Baltimore
2. Automobile is pronounced au-tro-mo-bil,
the au being sounded as in naught and the
o as in note. The accent, in this country
and England, is commonly laid on the third
syllable, the penult, though some prefer
accentuating the last syllable, like the
French and German.
Louis R Statter The Public General
Laws of Maryland, Article xvi, 95, pro-
vide that if any person residing in this
State shall desire to change his or her
name such person may file in the Circut
Court for the county of his or her resi-
dence or in the Circuit Court of Baltimore
city, if residing in that city, a petition
in which it shall be stated the changes
which he or she destres to be made in his or
her name and the reasons therefor The
court then, if satisfied, may order a decree
that the name be changed. The costs of
the proceedings shall be regulated by the
court and shall be paid by the petitioner
Democrat - The electoral vote of the
States, as based on the apportionment act
of 1900, is as follows. Alabama. 11; Ar-
kansas, 9; California, 10 Colorado, 5,
Connecticut, 7: Delaware. 3: Florida, 3;
Georgia, 13; Idaho, 3, Illinois, 27; Indi-
ana, 15; Iowa, 13; Kansas, 10; Kentucky,
13; Louisiana, 9; Maine, 6; Maryland, 8;
Massachusetts, 16; Michigan, 14; Minne-
sota, 11, Mississippi, 10; Missouri, 18,
Montans, 3; Nebraska, 8; Nevada, 3; New
Hampshire, 4; New Jersey, 12; New York,
39, North Carolina, 12; North Dakota, 4;
Ohlo, 23, Oregon, 4; Pennsylvania, 34;
Rhode Island, 4; South Carolina, 9, South
Dakota, 4; Tennessee, 12; Texas, 18;
Utah, 3; Vermont, 4; Virginia, 12; Wash-
ington, 5; West Virginia, 7; Wisconsin,
13, and Wyoming, 3.
Geo JA, Riggs Avenue-A chil-serv-
Ice examination will be held on June 22
to secure eligibles to fill a vacancy in the
position of assistant chemist (male) at
$1,400 a year in the Bureau of Stand-
ards, Department of Commerce and Labor.
Examinations are held at the Civil Serv-
ice Commission in Washington and else-
where as vacancies in the Governmental
service arise. There is no stated time
for examinations. Due announcement for
such special examination is made through
newspapers, giving the subjects comprised,
the requirements of the position and the
salary paid Full information can be ob-
tained by addressing Secretary Civil
Service Commission, Washington, DC
E. J. MC, Daily Reader.-Applicants
for admission to the Naval Academy at
Annapolis are examined physically at the
Naval Academy by three medical officers
of the navy and mentally-in reading.
writing, punctuation, spelling, arithmetic,
geography, English grammar, United States
history, world's history, algebra, through
quadratic equations and plain geometry.
Preparatory schools at Annapolis, where
also private instruction may be obtained
The general examination is held on the
third Tuesday in April at points named; a
second one at Washington, DC, on the
second Tuesday in May, under the super-
vision of the Civil Service Commission,
and a third examination at Annapolis, Md,
ou the third Tuesday in June, under the
superintendent of the Naval Academy
RA. D.W, Mountain Lake Park-Emin
Pasha (Eduard Schnitzer), the African ex-
plorer, was born in Oppeln, Prussian Si-
lesia, Germany, March 28, 1849, and was
assassinated by Arabs (Mansemas) near
Nyanzwe, when within a few days' march
of the Congo river, on October 20, 1892.
His last expedition is described in "With
Emin Pasha in the Heart of Africa," by his
companton, Dr. Franz Stuhlmann. Consult
Stanley's "In Darkest Africa," Schynse's
"With Stanley and Emin Pasha" and
Schweltzer's "Emin Pasha" The last two
books are in German. See also Little s
"Emio Pasha, His Life and Work" Emin
Pasha himself published only letters and
short reports. In 1888 there appeared in
Germany a collection of these in Schwein-
furth and Ratzel's "Emin Pasha, Elne
Sammlung von Reisebriefen und Berich-
ten."
Romulus -1. The Roman era began with
the year 753 B. C., or 753 before the birth
of Christ. 2. A. U., abbreviation of anno
urbis, means "in the year of (or after) the
building of the city." A. U. C. stands for
anno urbis conditae, or ab urbe condita, in
the year from the building of the city, viz,
Rome. A. C. is the abbreviation for ante
Christum, before Christ, or the Christian
ela. The same abbreviation, however, some-
times stands for anno Christi, in the year
of Christ, or after Christ's birth; while a.
c. means anni currentis, of the present year.
3. The ancient Romans, who originally
had only one name for every individual,
later on adopted three names, namely, first,
a nomen, ending in tus, denoting the race
(gens), as Cornellus, Claudius, etc.; second, a
cognomen, or family name, as Scipio, Cæsar,
and third, a praenomen, corresponding to
our "Christian name" to distinguish the
Individual members of the family, which
was placed before the nomen, as Cajus,
Marcus, etc.; for instance, Cajus Julius
Cæsar, Marcus Tullius Cicero. Daughters
were usually designated by their lineage,
as Tullia, Cornella. If there were two, they
were distinguished as major (elder) and
minor (younger) and in case of there being
more than two, as prima (first), secunda
(second), tertia (third), etc. 4. Always
in the Gospel, as a rule in the other books,
Sabbath means the seventh day of the week.
In the Middle Ages Sabbath meant only
Saturday. According to the elder Disraeli
it was first used in England in 1054 for
Sunday, the first day of the week, which
is more properly designated as "the Lord's
Day," or "Sunday." The seventh day of
the week, appointed by the fourth amend-
ment, is commonly observed by the Jews
and by some Christian, denominations (Sab-
batarians). But the resurrection of Christ,
on the first day of the week, being observed
holiday by the early Christian church,
supplanted
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.