CRITICISES CHELTENHAM
"More Like Prison Than Reforma-
tory," Says Grand Jury.
COMPLAIN OF HEAT AND FOOD
Managers Have Promised To Rem-
edy All The Alleged Defects As
Far As Possible.
"At present it is more like a prison than
a reformatory, and many radical changes
seem to be absolutely required," is among
the adverse criticisms of the House of
Reformation for Colored Boys at Chelten-
ham, Prince George's county, Md., made in
a report on the institution by a committee
of the grand jury for the September term,
which finished its work and was finally dis-
charged yesterday with the thanks of Judge
Wright, in the Criminal Court. The com-
mittee found much to condemn in the insti-
tution, but the report states that the
changes recommended will doubtless be
promptly made. The report, which was
made by the committee to Mr. Henry B.
Gilpin, foreman, and submitted to the court
with the other committee reports and the
report of Foreman Gilpin, is as follows:
"Two visits were made to the Chelten-
ham Reformatory for Colored Boys by your
committee and other members of the grand
Jury. We found the institution poorly
heated, and in many parts of we buildings
no heat at all.
"Complaint was made by many of the in-
mates on account of insufficient food, and
the occupants of the hospital claimed that
they were not fed any better than the other
boys.
"Confinement in dark cells, without heat
or light, and on a diet of bread and water
for long periods is in vogue.
"There are other objectionable features
in this institution.
"The committee is pleased, however, to
report that the managers have promised to
remedy all these matters as far as possible.
"The institution should have more liberal
appropriations, so that every part of it may
he comfortably heated, and in order that it
may in all respects be enabled to do the best
work in the reformation of its wards. At
present it is more like a prison than a re-
formatory, and many radical changes seem
to be absolutely required.
"Now that the necessity for these
changes has been called to the attention of
the proper authorities they will doubtless
be promptly made, and your committee re-
spectfully suggests, in justice to the man-
agement, that the attention of the incoming
grand jury be called to our findings, so that
the Court and public may hear later of the
improved condition of the institution.
"Perhaps no class of dependent minors
need the wholesome influences of a properly
conducted school or reformatory more than
these colored boys."
The committee was composed of Messrs.
Maurice Laupheimer. Andrew Muncks, Wil-
liam Vitzthum, Edward C. Johnson and
George Filbert, all of whom signed the re-
port.
Mr. Preston Commended.
The report of the committee on exits to
public buildings states that without excep-
tion all the buildings visited were found to
be equipped with exits ample in size and
sufficient in number to meet their respect-
ive requirements. The committee noted
with pleasure the diligence of the Building
Inspector in locating buildings where fire
escapes and additional means of egress were
needed, and his promptness in demanding
that these safeguards be put in such build-
ings.
"We desire to commend him for his work
In this respect," the report continues, "and
for his action in prohibiting the use of the
turnstile doors in large and crowded build-
ings. If it be needed, we would recommend
the passage of such legislation as to make
impossible the erection or use of such doors.
That they would seriously impede the
prompt passage of persons in an emergency
cannot for a moment be questioned."
Would Improve Milk Supply.
The recommendations for a general sew-
erage system, a hospital for infectious dis-
eases and the filtration of the city water
supply are repeated in the report of the
committee on sanitation. The committee
also recommends some plan by which the
city may obtain better control over the milk
supply.
"Our system of inspection only applies to
milk after its arrival in Baltimore," the re-
port continues. "Endeavors should be made
to require shippers to report to our Health
Departments and receive instructions for the
prevention of the pollution of the milk sup-
ply.
"Finally, your committee would urge a
more active campaign against tuberculosis,
and we trust Baltimore will not be long be-
hind many other large cities in its endeav-
ors to stamp out this dread disease."
Penitentiary A Model.
"We enthusiastically point to our institu-
Lion as a model, for a model we think it
1s," the committee on the penitentiary say
in its report. "Warden John F. Weyler
we regard as the right man in the right
place. "The committee recommend that the
State adopt general supervision of all insti-
tutions."
In the opinion of the committee on the
jail, that institution is too small, and a
new, larger and more modern prison and
workshops should be built.
Foreman Gilpin's Recommendations
Mr. Gilpin, the foreman, in his report,
recommends severe punishment for wife-
beaters, notifying persons required to have
licenses, requiring junk dealers to report
purchases to the police, more care in issu-
ing licenses to hotels and clubhouses, and
the establishment of a hospital for conta-
gious diseases. The report says the protec-
tion afforded by law to installment houses
and chattel loan associations seems to be
unfair.
The report concludes with a summary of
the work of the grand jury and a grateful
acknowledgment of the attention, courtesy
and efficiency of the court officials.
The
number of cases on the grand jury dockets
during the term was 1,256, of which 707
The grand jury for the January term has
were presented and 489 dismissed.
been summoned for next Monday, when the
term begins.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.