AS THE OFFICERS SEE IT
Point To Many Improvements Made
At Cheltenham.
In view of the report of the grand jury
on the House of Reformation at Chelten-
ham the following annual report, submit-
ted to Mayor Timanus yesterday by Gen.
Thomas J. Shryock, president of the insti-
tution, is received with interest:
"We are pleased to report that this in-
stitution is in a more prosperous condition
than for many years in its history. Owing
to the liberality of the city and State in
the financial support given the institution,
we have been enabled to provide better
maintenance for the boys who have been
committed to its care, especially in the line
of material comfort.
"We have already made some improve-
ments in the physical conditions at the in-
stitution and have others in contempla-
tion which will enable the officers to bring
the reformatory influence to bear more ef-
fectually than has been the case hereto-
fore.
"Our bathing facilities, which have been
crude and out of date, have been greatly
Improved by the introduction of the over-
head-spray system and modern plumbing,
with a view to proper sanitation, is being
gradually installed in all the cottages.
"The industrial training of the boys is
the leading feature in the department of
education, the idea being to give each boy
such physical equipment as will enable him
to make a living in some line of work when
he leaves the institution.
"There are now committed to the re-
formatory 254 boys from the city of Balti-
more, 91 from the various counties of
Maryland and 37 from the Federal courts
in the different States.
"Our system of paroling boys to houses
among farmers and others residing in
rural districts is having good results. We
have now 126 boys paroled in good homes
in various parts of Maryland, who are
earning wages, and these are, almost with-
out exception, giving good satisfaction.
"The increased confidence which has been
shown and the more liberal support which
we have received from both the municipal
and State governments is greatly appre-
ciated, and we trust that the results
achieved will be considered as amply justi-
fying the appropriations that have been
made. The managers and officers certain-
ly feel that they have cause to be encour-
aged with the outlook, and it is their de-
termination, if the financial support of the
Institution in the future should be ade-
quate, to make the House of Reformation
one of the model reformatories of the coun-
try."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.