MARYLAND GOSSIP
Items Culled From The County
Newspapers Of The State.
Invitations are out for the marriage of
Miss Mamie Townshend and Mr. John Al-
brittain February 15. Miss Townshend is
a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. S. G. Town-
shend. of Cheltenham. Prince George's
county, and Mr. Albrittain is the second
Son of ex-Sheriff John W. Alhrittain and a
brother of Deputy Clerk Warten M. Al-
brittain, of Charies county. The ceremony
will take place in the Church of Atone-
ement, in Cheltenham.-La Plata Times-
Crescent.
-
A Fatal Leap,
William Secrist, aged 18 years, the
Bdopted son of Adam Secrist, was killed
by jumplug from a railroad freight train.
He was at Brandywine and hoarded the
train for Cheltenham, where he lived.
When the train reached Cheltenham it did
not stop, as he supposed it would do, and
he jumped and foll, striking his head
against a rall in the switeb, crushing his
skull. A colored boy was with him and
he made the jump also, but landed in a
snowdrift and escaped without accident.-
La Plata Independent.
-
To Vote On Rallroad Questlou.
The City Council of Ilavre de Grace has
Buthorized the holding of a special election
Monday, February 20, for the purpose of
submitting to the qualified voters the ques-
tion whether the line of Warren street
shall, or shall not be changed to meet the
requirements of the Philadelphia, Balti-
more and Washington Railroad Company
in order to carry out its plans to Havre de
Grace.
To Have A Bar Library.
A delegation of the members of the How-
ard county bar ask for one of the rooms in
the Courthouse in Ellicott City for the use
of lawyers as a library. The room used
by the Supervisors of Election was selected
and will be fitted up for the purpose. The
amoney for the books will come from fines
dniposed in criminal enses. The need of
such a library for lawyers has been long
felt both by the local members of the bar
as well as out-of-town lawsers coming
here to try cases. Ellicott City Journal.
:
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.