FOR SNATCHING PОСКЕТВООK
Three Negro Boys Se To House
Of Reformat.
Artic Blake. Joseph Pree and Web-
ster Bloxom, all colored and om 12 to 14
years old, were sentenced to the House of
Reformation, at Cheltenham. until they
are 21 years old, by Judge Wright. in the
Criminal Court, yesterday for snatching
the pocketbook of Miss Josephine Doyle,
410 South Stricker street, on November 28
last. The testimony showed that the three
young negroes locked arms and ran into
Miss Doyle on Lexington street, near Ca-
rey. Bloxom grabbed the pocketbook. but
as he was running away be fell and dropped
it. Blake picked it up, but before he re-
joined the other two he abstracted a dol-
lar. When Blake's companions learned that
he bad taken a dollar a quarrel ensued,
which led to the arrest of all three.
Judge Wright expressed astonishment at
the commission of such a crime by boys so
young. and said he belleved a prison for
such offenders would be a good thing.

VAGRANT IS A NOUN
Question Of Construction Diided Did
By Judge Baer.
In an opinion filed in Part 2 of the City
Court yesterday Judge Baer holds that the
words "vagrant, habitually disorderly per-
sou." as used in Section 314 of Article 27
of the Code of Public General Laws, de-
scribe two separate offenses, and therefore
it is proper to charge a person with va.
grancy under the law.
The question as to the judicial construc-
tien of the language arose in the habeas
corpus case of James Flanigan, who had
been committed to six months in the House
of Correction on the charge of vagrancy.
Judge Baer states in the opinion that
Judges Harlan and Dobler. who sat with
him in the case, concur in his views.
The question was whether the word "va-
grant" should be construed as a noun or
an adjective in the phrase quoted. The his-
tory of the legislation on the subject and
other words found in Section 314, together
with the decision of the Court of Appeals
in the Margaret Glenn case (54 Md., 572).
led the Court to conclude that the word
: "vagrant" should be construed as a noun.
Flanigan was released from custody when
the case was heard, as the commitment
was defective in another respect.
- THREE DIVORCES GRANTED
:
Two Others Seck Release From
Matrimonial Bonds.
On the ground of abandonment, Richard
- McClure, a carbuilder. 638 Clinton avenue,
. was granted an absolute divorce yesterday
from Annie J. McClure and the custody of
their two children. They were married on
May 31, 1804. and separated on February
6.1901.
:
Henrietta Foote. 200 Maryland avenue,
- Westport, was granted an absolute divorce
from Abner Foote. to whom she was mar-
ried on February 9, 1902, and with whom
she lived until January 27, 1903. The di-
•vorce was granted for unfaithfulness.
:
An absolute divorce from Frederick W.
Dryer, on the ground of unfaithfulness,
- was granted yesterday to Catharine Dryer,
14 North Bradford street. They were mar-
-ried on March 13. 1898, and lived together
about three years.
-
Jennie Draude, by Thomas C. Ruddell,
-attorney, applied in the Circuit Court yes-
terday for an absolute divorce from Con-
rad Draude and the custody of their two
children. They were married February 10,
1889. The plaintiff alleges that her husband
abandoned her over three years ago.
In the same court Katie Kroedel applied,
by F. J. Schaub, attorney, for an absolute
divorce from Charles F. Kroedel on the
ground of unfaithfulness. They were mar-
fied on November 24, 1896, and separated
Con May 10 last.
Caveat Miss Hollingsworth's Will.
A cavent to the will of Miss Caroline
Hollingsworth, who died November 26 last,
has been filed in the Orphans' Court by her
nephew, John N. Carroll, through Brown,
Marshall, Brune & Thomas, attorneys. The
will in dispute was executed September 30
Jast, and was admitted to probaate on the
ad Instant, letters on the estate being grant-
d to Thomas J. Lindsay, who was named
executor and who bonded for $700.
Miss Hollingsworth bequeathed her es-.
te Zequally to Hester Chase, Allan and
Simmons, It is alleged-byt
the
nobiol sound mind