Maryland, First State To Have
Objectors' Camp, Now Has 9
Diversity Of Pursuits Provided For 427 Young Men
As Non-Militaristic Effort To U. S. Welfare
Maryland, where the first camplects and typical of other camps ir
for conscientious objectors in the the United States is the Friends
United States was established in camp on the Pocomoke river near
1941, now has within its boundaries Powellsville. There in the Poco
nine units providing a diversity of moke swamps, 131 conscientious
peaceful pursuits for 427 young objectors are helping to dig a
fourteen-and-one-half-mile canal de.
men.
It is not a large number, but it signed to provide drainage for
is a sizable proportion of the small 43,000 acres in the Pocomoke area.
minority of young men whose
scruples prevent them from fight-
ing for their country.
Not A Concentration Camp
Like all civilian public service
camps, Pocomoke is under the joint
More than two years ago twenty- administration of selective service
six young men arrived at an aban- and the National Service Board for
doned CCC camp in Baltimore Religious Objectors, a civilian or-
county to begin, under the terms ganization representing the his-
of the Selective Service Act, their toric peace churches-the Friends
non-militaristic contribution to the (Quakers), Brethren and Men-
national welfare.
nonites
and other interested
-
Among First Caught In Draft groups. Since Congress has made
They were not volunteers. They no provision for the support of
were among the first to be caught conscientious objectors, Pocomoke
up in the draft and the camp at
Patapsco State Park was the al-
ternative to the army or jail.
is privately financed,
It is not a concentration camp,
of course. 'The campers have their
That was May 15, 1941. The furloughs and passes-much the
country's No. 1 camp for con- same privileges accorded to men in
scientious objectors now is closed, the armed forces.
its mission completed and its pio-
Under the direct supervision of
neer campers gone elsewhere to the Federal Soil Conservation
continue work in other civilian Service and with the cooperation
public service camps until six of Worcester and Wicomico coun-
months after the war's end.
Since then their number has
grown from twenty-six to approxi-
mately 6,400 men in a nation-wide
network of camps and units en-
gaged, under joint civilian and
selective service supervision, in
"work of national importance."
Patapsco A Proving Ground
!
was more or less tentative and ex-
ties and the State, the work at
Pocomoke is going on six days a
week-nine and half hours a day.
The men receive no pay.
Two Classed As Camps
Only two units in Maryland can
be truly classed as camps. The
second-the Hagerstown unit-is
a composite of four smaller camps
That first attempt at Patapsco in Washington county, sponsored
perimental. Nothing like it had (Continued on Page 7 Column 2)
been tried before. Patapsco was a
proving ground for an idea that,
measured by the wide range in
Lypes of work, has grown consider-
ably.
Chief among the Maryland proj-

Maryland, First State To Have
Objectors' Camp, Now Has 9
Diversity Of Pursuits Provided For 427 Young Men
As Non-Militaristic Effort To U. S. Welfare
(Continued from Page 26)
by the Mennonites. The camps ag- two objectors serving as cottage
gregate 129 men.
masters and instructors in two
As at Pocomoke, the work in of the State's industrial training
Cheltenham School for
Washington county generally is on schools
soil conservation projects. How. Boys and Rosewood State Training
ever, the conscientious objector School at Owings Mills.
-
Dairy farmers are using a dozen
or more men as laborers on farms
usually is available to farmers dur-
ing harvest time and last year
Washington county farmers paid in throughout Montgomery county. In
the neighborhood of $9,000 for this addition, three dairy testers, serv-
ing with dairy herd improvement
help.
At Beltsville, sixty-eight men are associations, cover the State to aid
at work on the Federal Govern in maintaining and improving the
ment's experimental farm, where quality of milk products.
their activities range from ordinary
Some Unrest Noted
i
labor in the orchards and stock. What is the morale of these men?
pens to technical work in the ex- Camp officials say there is some
tensive Beltsville laboratories.
Work At Mental Hospitals.
unrest-largely a sense of frustra-
tion-growing out of a realization
Mental hospitals, hard hit by the that they may not be doing enough,
lack of manpower, probably pro- that their activity in some cases,
vide the greatest single work cate- rather than being "work of na-
gory for conscientious objectors tional importance," may be quite
throughout the country. Two Mary- unimportant.
-
land institutions the Eastern There is considerable search for
Shore State Hospital at Cambridge new fields of endeavor to allevi-
and the Springfield State Hospital ate this feeling. For the more ad-
for the insane at Sykesville-cur- venturous there has been some
rently employ forty-nine men in opportunity for service as "guinea
their wards as attendants and or- pigs" in medical experiments. No
derlies.
such projects are recorded
Also on special service are thirty- Maryland at present.
in