LADDER TO STEAL HORSE
Boy Was Too Short, So He Climbed
Up To Put On Harness.
James Gates, a little colored boy who
says he is 10 years old, was arrested yes-
terday by Patrolman Walter Burns, of the
Northwestern police district, on the charge
of stealing a horse, cart and harness. The
horse and harness belonged to the Carroll
Coal Company, 60 West Oliver street, and
the cart to Edward Stabler, 58 West Oli-
ver street.
According to his own story Gates went
to the stable of the Carroll Coal Company
and by means of a stepladder took the har-
ness from a hook. Being too small to place
the harness on the horse he brought the
stepladder into service again and finally
arranged the harness on the animal. The
horse was taken to a lot where the cart
was standing and then Gates was pre-
pared to do business. He had started out
to find "work," as he termed it when l'a-
trolman Burns was notified that the horse,
cart and harness were missing and arrested
Gates at Biddle street and Park avenue.
The police say Gates has been paroled
twice.
Judge Packard, of the Juvenile Court,
committed Gates to the Colored House of
Refuge at Cheltenham.
Murray Stole Whisky, Police Say.
Alfred Murray, allas Cooper, colored, of
811 Mulberry court, was committed for
court yesterday afternoon by Justice Lo-
den, at the Western Police Station, on the
charge of feloniously entering the ware-
house of Meyer, Pitts & Co., whisky deal-
ers at 415 West Camden street, and steal-
ing several gallons of whisky on Septem-
ber 27.
Murray was arrested by Sergeant Rus-
sell. Emil Koenig, a saloonkeeper at 310
South Eutaw street, testified that Robert
11. Bridges found several demijohns of
whisky in an alley in the rear of the sa-
loon and took them into his yard. Later
Murray came to Koenig and claimed the
whisky, offering to sell it. Mr. Bridges
testified to having discovered the deuif-
johns.
Marray was arrested about a month ago
on the charge of the Iarceny of six quarts
of whisky, for which the police were un-
able to find a claimant.
Western Maryland's Schedule.
The Western Maryland Railroad Com-
pany announces that the regular fall and
winter schedule will go into effect Sunday,
October 2. The Blue Mountain express will
be run as an extra train from Baltimore
to the mountain resort points, and also to
Hagerstown on Fridays and Saturdays, Oc-
tober 7, 8, 14 and 15, leaving IIillen Sta-
tion, however, at 3.20 P. M., five minutes
earlier than at present. A new accommo-
dation train to Union Bridge will leave
Baltimore at 4.15 P. M. The fast Hagers-
town express will leave IIiilen Station at
5 P. M. This train will run as a very fast
express to Union Bridge, stopping only at
Westminster, and beyond Union Bridge will
make local stops. The York express will
leave Millen Station at 5.25 P. M., which
is earlier than heretofore. The new sched..
ule in detail can be found in the advertis-
ing columns.
Many Fine Pears Arrive.
Large quantities of luscious Keifer pears
are arriving at Light street wharf from
the pear orchards of Kent and Queen
Anne's counties. About 50 per cent. of the
fruit consists of pears blown from the trees
during the recent heavy storm.
The Chester River Line, which brings
most of the fruit from the two countles,
has, In view of the large crop expected, re-
duced the freight rates. This reduction will
go into effect on October 1. The steamers
of this line are arriving with large cargoes
of pears.
Prices on Keffer pears yesterday ranged
from 15 to 20 cents, although exceptionally
fine specimens went for 25 cents a basket,
and the "windfalls," or fruit blown from
the trees, were sold during the day for 12
cents a basket.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.