by the "Act of 1882. It recèlves an appro-
priation of $10,000 a year from the State
and a like, sum, we belleve, from the city
of Baltimore. It is managed by 16 directors,
two of whom are appointed by the State,
two by the city and 12 by individuals who
contribute as much as $2 a year to the sup-
port of the concern. It would seem that
the managers representing the city and
State should not have waited for the grand
jury to indicate any "objectionable fen-
tures" if they are of a serious nature.
"Perhaps no class of dependent minors
need the wholesome influences of a prop-
erly conducted school or reformatory more
than these colored boys." This is the con-
clusion reached by the committee of the
grand jury, and nothing could be more just.
There are committed to this place a large
number of negro boys who should be treat-
ed with humanity, firmness and gentleness
as far as it is possible, and, above all
things, they should be taught to work.
The part of Maryland in which this Insti-
tution is located is in great need of farm
labor, and these boys might be civilized
and taught to do farm work. They could
always obtain the kind of employment for
which they are best suited and for which
there is the greatest demand. There is an
opportunity to make of them useful citi-
zens in the humble walks of life. But un-
due harshness and cruelty can only result
in turning out a lot of criminals to prey
upon society.
THE REFORMATION OF COLORED
BOYS.
The House of Reformation for Colored
Boys, at Cheltenham, Prince George's coun-
ty, has been severely criticised by the grand
Jury of Baltimore city. "At present it is
more like a prison than a reformatory,"
says the grand jury, "and many radical
changes seem to be absolutely required."
Among the "objectionable features", discov-
ered by the grand jury is the amiable cus-
tom of confining boys in dark cells, with-
out heat or light, and on a diet of bread
and water, for long periods."
It is provided by the laws of Maryland
(Chapter 382 of the Acts of 1882) that when-
ever any colored minor under the age of 16
years shall be convicted of any felony or
other offense the judge or justice, "In his
discretion and with reference to the char-
acter of said institution as a place of re-
form, and not of punishment, may order
said minor so convicted to be removed to
and confined in the said house of reforma-
tion and instruction."
In view of the disclosures of the grand
jury such a provision seems a nockery.
Any unfortunate convict might pray to be
delivered from such a fate and committed
instead to the penitentiary.
If it had been contemplated when the
"reformatory" was established that such
methods would be used, then a humane
Legislature would have provided, that the
less hardened and vicious criminals should
be removed from it to the penitentiary.
This, Cheltenham house was established
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.