THE STATE CAPITAL
Oyster Dredgers Walking Through
The Snow To Baltimore,
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.)
Annapolis. Md., Jan. 31. Six dredgers
from an oyster schooner which is frozen in
the lee some distance down the bay ar-
rived in Annapolls late last night balf
starved and cold, having walked from be-
low West river, a distance of about 20
miles. The men said that they left the
Jower section of the counts on Saturday
sight and had been walking ever since,
even through the blinding snowstorm of
Sunday night. When they reached here
they were placed in a police station for the
night, after being fed, and this morning
were given breakfast at the city's expense.
They said that they lived in Baltimore, and
being unable to make their way through
the ice in the vesssel, they decided to walk.
Learning their condition. the men were
given transportation to Baltimore by the
city authorities.
The ice situation about here is becoming
worse every day. The watermen think
that the present freeze is the worst of the
year, and the impression prevails that ship-
ping, especially the smaller hay craft, may
be tied up for weeks. Two large seagoing
steamers, outward bound from Baltimore,
this morning were apparently having a
hard battle through the fields of ice.
A FATAL LEAP
William Sechrist, Aged 17, Killed
Near Cheltenham,
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.)
Hyattsville, Md., Jan. 31.-In attempt-
ing to jump from a fast-freight train at
Cheltenham, Prince George's county, Wil-
liam Sechrist, 17 years of age, lost his life
Sunday evening last. Accompanied by a
colored boy, named John Hawkins, young
Sechrist boarded the passenger train at
Cheltenham about 6 o'clock and rode to
Brandywine. There they caught the fast
freight back to their home. When Chelten-
ham was reached Hawkins leaped from the
train, falling headlong into a deep snow-
drift, escaping serious injury. He was on.
top of the rear car. Young Sechrist was
between the cars near the rear, and when
he jumped the current from the fast-mor-
ing train prevented him from making the
drift, and he fell upon the track, his head
striking the frog of the switch, crushing
out his brains. The young man died in a
few minutes and his body was removed to
the home of his guardian, Mr. A. II. Se
christ, near Cheltenham. The body was
taken to l'ennsylvania today for interment.
WASHINGTON COUNTY
Body Of Unknown Man Found in
Canal-Easton's Little Boy.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.)
Hagerstown. Md., Jan. 31. The hods of
an unknown man was found yesterday aft-
ernoon under the ice in the Chesapeake sod
Ohio canal near Pearre, about 10 miles
west of Hancock. The body was in such a
condition as to be scarcely recognizable as
a human corpse.
It is supposed the body is that of a la-
borer who had been employed on the Wa-
bash extension to Cumberland and who
disappeared last fall.
Flagman George Byerly, who was se-
riously injured in the freight wreck on the
Western Maryland railroad near Highfield,
was removed to Johns Hopkins Hospital
for an operation.
Superintendent Jacob A. Ziegler, of the
Orphans Home, today took preliminary
legal steps to get possession of the S-year-
old son of Fred Easton, who was convicted
of manslaughter at Cumberland, and to
place him in the home.
The Washington County Commissioners
today settled with ex-Sheriff M. Finley Sei-
bert, who was sued last summer by the
county for $1,500, alleged to be due. Mr.
Seibert agrees to pay the county $600.
Miss Lela L. Repp, of Big Pool, and Mr.
Charles C. Grove, of Indian Springs, were
married in Hagerstown yesterday by Rev.
W. H. Lilley.
Miss Pearl C. Jones, of Weverton, and
Mr. Harry E. Nokes, of Brownsville, were
married on Sunday at Brownsville by Rev.
Noah P. Castle.
Deaths In Washington County.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.]
- Hagerstown, Md., Jan. 31.-James Gan-
non died yesterday afternoon at his home,
In Hancock, from pneumonia, aged 29
years. He was a son of the late Edward
Ganson.
Mrs. Martha Spong, wife of Elias Spong,
died this morning after a lingering illness
at her home, in Sharpsburg, aged 64 years.
Mrs. Anna Sophia Welty, formerly of
Fair Play, died in Hagerstown of pneu-
monia last night, aged 76-years.
Relatives in Hagerstown received in-
formation of the death on Monday at York,
Pa., of David Syler Ziegler, in his seventy-
sixth year. Mr. Ziegler was born near
Leitersburg, Washington, county, and was
a årst cousin of the late Levi Z. Leiter.