MR. LANGTON IN CHARGE
Succeeds Mr. McCahn As Manager
Of Belvedere This Morning.
Mr. John II. Langton, the newly appoint-
ed manager of the Hotel Belvedere, ar-
rived from New York yesterday and will
take charge of the hotel this morning.
Mr. Langton's last experience was with
the Spalding Hotel, in New York. Pre-
viously he was connected with the Hol-
land House, the Victoria and the Imperial.
He began his work with the Ryan House,
St. Paul, and was for nine years with the
Clarendon,
years in the Spaulding, Duluth,
subsequently spending
five
FEVER DELAYS MISS RIDGELY
Missionary Taken Ill In Rome, But
Resumes Journey.
Miss Margaretta Sophia Ridgely, of Bal
timore, who was on her way to Liberia,
West Africa, to resume her work as a mis-
sionary of the Protestant Episcopal Church,
was delayed several days in Rome by a
slight fever, but has recovered and re-
sumed her journey. Her sister, Mrs. J.
Southgate Yeaton, 2019 Maryland a۷۴۱۱۰,
received a letter from her sister dated at
Rome yesterday to this effect.
THREE SENT TO REFUGE
Eight Young Negroes Before Jus.
tice flenisler.
Eight colored boys, who, as stated in
THE SUS, were arrested in the Northern
district on charges of robbing dwellings
and freight cars, assault and disorderly
conduct, were before Justice Heuisler, in
the Juvenile Court, yesterday,
William A. Preston, William Wintersand
Samuel A. Golliver, who were said to be the
ringleaders, were sent to the Colored House
of Reformation, at Cheltenham, on the
charge of incorrigibility, Owen Hall, who
is also said to be a ringleader, was held for
court, as he asked a jury trial. Two of
the boys were paroled and the charges
against the remaining two were dismissed,
FATHER ARRESTS SON
Mr. Fowler Says His Offspring Stole
$39 From Him.
The strange spectacle of a father ar-
resting his son was seen at the Northeast-
ern Police Station last night when Richard
S. Fowler, 1928 East Chase street, en-
tered grasping his son, Richard H. Fowler,
by the collar, and demanded that Round
Sergeant Coulbourne lock him up on the
charge of being incorrigible.
According to the father's statement, the
lad, who is 18 years old, stole $30 of his
parents' money on Monday and went to
Philadelphia. He returned to the city yes-
terday and the senior Fowler learned of
his whereabouts and arrested him.
The
youth will be given a hearing before Justice
Ochs this morning.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.