SHE SUES FOR $10,000
Declares That She Was Injured By
Cleaning Fluid At The Caswell.
Elizabeth E. Hurley, by her attorneys,
O'Mara & Angelmier, instituted suit for
$10,000 damages against the Caswell Ho-
tel Company in the Superior Court yester-
-day. She.charges that her face, arm and
body were seriously and permanently in-
jured by a cleaning fluid containing acld.
She was employed by the hotel's house-
keeper to clean china, and she claims that
she was not told that the cleaning fiuld con-
tained acid or was poisonous.
SENTENCED BY JUDGE MORRIS|
Negro Who Passed A Bad Dollar
Sent To Cheltenham.
Clifton Wilson, colored, 15 years old, 26
Gould lane, was sentenced by Judge Morris
to two years in the School for Colored Boys
at Cheltenham on the charge of passing
a counterfeit silver dollar.
Judge Morris also sentenced Albert Salt-
veldt, 30 years old, to 30 days in jail for
passing. a. $1 bill which had been raised
to $5.
Jacob Niss and Gustave Myers were fined
$25 each on the charge of smuggling two
bottles of gin from the steamer Cassel on
Saturday, March 24.
Harrison Little was sent to jail for 30
days on the charge of assault and battery
which took place on Government property
at Annapolis.
Royal Arcanum Appeal Heard.
The appeal case of the Royal Arcanum
Building Club from the assessment by the
Appeal Tax Court of $29,800 on its prop-
erty at 18 West Saratoga street was tried
before Judge Sharp, in City Court, Part 2,
yesterday. The previous assessment was
$12,333. Judge Sharp announced that he
would render a decision later.
The appeal of Mrs. Isabelle Buckner from
the assessment of $6,000 on property at
109 Centre Market Space was also taken
up, but not concluded. The former assess-
ment was $3.000.
To Pay Belvedere Hotel Taxes,
Judge Stockbridge yesterday signed an
order directing Messrs. George Blakistone
and Edgar G. Miller, Jr., receivers for the
Hotel Belvedere, to pay $10,000 on account
of the State and city taxes for the year
1905. The amount still owing by the Belve-
dere in 1905 taxes is $10,178.36.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.