Cheltenham School
TO THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir: There
have been several editorials which definitely
advocated the erection of the proposed new
Cheltenham School for Boys within the limits
of Baltimore city. There are definite grounds
for questioning this move and particularly
if the South Baltimore site is to be used. The
institution, irrespective of what State depart
ment operates it, is a penal institution and
so it cannot be built at the South Baltimore
site.... The only commercial zoning near in
the whole district are two grocery stores, and
that portion of a lumber yard within the
city line. These facts clearly explain the
demand that the residential zone be retained.
The South Baltimore property, in its pres-
ent state, is a taxable asset of the city. A
State institution would place the complete
tract upon a tax-free basis, thus removing for
all time the possible realization of taxes to
the city. And unquestionably it would lower
the assessment valuation of surrounding im-
proved property.
It may be very truthfully stated that this
institution, legally, morally and according to
all established customs, should not be located
within the city boundaries. It is also possible
that by using a portion of the appropriated
money to rehabilitate the present site in
Prince Georges county and the remainder
to pay staff members a sufficient wage to
insure their continued employment, the State
could make the old institution very efficient.
E. E. BOTSON,
President Lakeland-Dorchester Heights
Improvement Association.
Baltimore, Jan, 28.
Our Foreign Commitments
TO THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir: One year
ago we were all saying, "Win the war and win
the peace by occupying the enemy countries
until 19-so-and-so." The length of time of
occupation varied, depending upon the indi-
vidual opinions, but all agreed that Ger-
many and Japan should be occupied until
such time as their warmaking potentialities
were removed.
That was one year ago. What a different
picture is presented today! In the Philip-
pines, in China, in Hawaii, in France, every.
where, we find open rebellion against being
kept abroad. Everywhere we find the desire
to return home placed above the national
security.
The service man is probably not altogether
responsible; some of the blame may be laid
at the War and Navy departments' doors for
a vacillating program, but certainly a large
degrse of the blame rests upon Mr. and Mrs.
John Q. Citizen back home. Most of the blame
is brought about by lack of individual aware
ness of the demobilization problem and the
foreign commitments made by our State
Department.
...
I believe that the American people would
follow the leadership if the President, or
someone else in authority, would lay the
issues squarely before us; half measures will
no longer suffice.
ARTHUR P. SEWELL.
Baltimore, Jan. 28.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.