SIDELIGHTS ON THE HANGING
Negro Preacher Will Tell Congre-
gation Of What He Saw.
Commander Howard had never seen an
execution, He saw Lee hanged. It was
not due to any desire on his part, but was
rather by accident.
! While the Sheriff was preparing for the
Anale Commander Howard walked down the
beach, standing with his back toward the
scaffold. He turned his head, however, in
the direction of the scaffold a moment later,
Just in time to see the execution.
Lec's spiritual adviser brought out a fact
hèretofore unknown in the case. Lee ad-
mitted to his minister that he was com-
mitted to the Cheltenham School of Refor-
mation for Colored Children when he was
12 years of age and romained there about
two years.
-
Capt. John Wallop Sterling, who was
among the crowd, said that the boy had
been employed on his vessel about two years
ago and that he had warned Lee to mend
his ways or he would be hanged some day.
- The members of the city detective force
were each supplied with 15 rounds of am-
munition. Having no use for it they will
return it to headquarters.
اجا
Among the fishermen who saw the hang-
Ing were three colored persons, who came
ashore from their crabblag boats and
seemed as much interested as the whites.
The keepers of Smith's Island light low-
ered their boat and joined those on shore,
being unable to resist the temptation to
see the execution.
Several amateur photographers suc-
ceeded in obtaining a number of pictures
of the execution. Chief among them was
Assistant State's Attorney O'Dunne, who
kept his camera constantly working during
the preparation for the hanging and after
the execution.
-
The McLane arrived in Baltimore last
night at 9.45 o'clock.
Rev. Samuel A. Ward announced his in-
tention of delivering a sermon to his con-
gregation at the Fulton Baptist Church on
Sunday next on what he saw at Lee's exe-
cution.
-
It was one of the few executions to take
place in Maryland on any day but Friday.
In the party on the McLane were:
Shoriff George W. Brown, of Somerset county.
Deputy Sheriff's William S. Chelton, William A.
Sterling, Harding P. Tull, Jesse L. Lano and
Charles H. Speights, of Somerset county.
Drs. Henry M Lankford and Charles T. Fisher,
Assistant State's Attorney Eugene O'Dunne, of
Baltimore,
Edward Wernsing, of Baltimore,
Elijah M. Price, of Baltimore county.
W. W. Flowers, of Baltimore,
J. C. Bowerman, of Baltimore.
Commander Thomas C. B. Howard.
R. G. Navy.
Detectives Thomas F. Hogan, John H. Kratz,
Joseph F. Dougherty, Harry Bustck, Peter Bradley
and Thomas Burns.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.