SHOEDEALERS FOR FREE HIDES
Appoint Standing Committee To
Urge Change And Elect Officers.
Boston, Jan. 24. At the annual meet-
ing of the National Shoe Wholesalers' As-
sociation of the United States held in this
city today these officers were elected:
President-R. F. Spencer, of St. Louis.
Secretary-Treasurer-George C. Houghton, of Bos-
ton.
Vice-Presidents J. K. Orr, of Atlanta, Ga.; C.
W. Durrell, of Cincinnati; John H. Gibbs, of Bos-
ton, and Daniel T. Merritt, of New York.
The question of free hides was discussed,
but no action was taken, as it was felt that
It would be useless to try to secure action
on the subject at the present short session
of Congress. A standing commitee, how-
ever, will continue its efforts in the inter-
est of promoting sentiment in favor of free
hides..
Another matter under discussion was
the efforts being made by the association
to secure a reclassification of shoes by the
transportation companies from first to sec-
ond class, thus making a reduction in trans-
portation rates. A committee will endeavor
to bring about this change.
MISS FOX NOW MRS. ELKINS
Members Of Prominent Philadelphia
Families Are Married.
Philadelphia. Jan. 24.--In St. Paul's
Church, at Cheltenham, a suburb. Miss Nat-
alie Crozer Fox and George W. Elkins. Jr..
members of prominent Philadelphia fami-
lies, were married today before an assem-
blage of guests from New York. Pittsburg,
Baltimore, Washington and other cities.
The ceremony was performed by Rev. J.
Thompson Cole, rector of the church, and
the bridesmaids included Miss May Boy-
den and Miss Jane Boyden, of Salisbury,
N. C.; Miss Constance Johnson and Miss
Mildred Grebel, of New York.
CHINA FEEDS THE STARVING
Mr. Coolidge Says It Is First Time
In Her History.
- San Francisco, Jan. 24.-J. G. Coolidge,
former secretary of the American Legation
at Peking, who arrived yesterday on the
liner Korea, says that for the first time in
its long history the Chinese Government is
rendering organized rellef to famine vic-
tims.
The rice tribute from districts in the
vicinity of the famine-stricken area has
been directed for the relief of the sufferers
and is being systematically distributed un-
der Government direction. Refugees have
been concentrated at Kang King and other
large towns on the lower Yangtse, and
the Government aid has been effectively
administered.
The refugees will have to be fed for four
months, when a new crop is expected to re-
store normal conditions in the famine belt.
Mr. Coolidge believes there is little dan-
ger of a renewal of the anti-American boy-
cott. The danger spot is Canton, and there
a new viceroy, friendly to foreigners, has
taken the place of the arbitrary and very
unpopular Governor under whose adminis-
tration the boycott flourished.
QUAKE AFFECTS OIL YIELD
Gulf Field Loses And North Texas
Field Increases Production.
Galveston, Jan. 24.--The Gulf Coast oil
fields have decreased their production over
45 per cent. within the last week, and the
cause is attributed to seismic disturbances
in Jamaica.
The sudden-drop was noticed the second
day after the Jamaica earthquake, and 17
wells in Texas and Louisiana went dry.
After the VValparaiso .earthquake many
wells ceased to flow, while an immense oil
lake appeared out in the Gulf. The North
Texas oil fields have increased 100 per cent.
since the Jamaica shocks, and the product
is much lighter in color.
1
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.