-
CHELTENHAM
SITE OPPOSED
Protest. Meeting Hears Zon-
ing Ordinance Argument
Edward A. Freburger, city coun
cilman from the Sixth District, las
night raised the question whethe
the State of Maryland is not in
violation of a city zoning ordinanc
in attempting to locate the nev
Cheltenham Training School fo
Colored Boys on the site recentl;
purchased between Hollins Ferr
road and Old Annapolis boulevard
in the Cherry Hill Mount Winan:
section.
As one of more than a score o
speakers at a two-and-a-half-hou
mass meeting at Lakeland, Balti
more county, in which residents o
South Baltimore. Morrell Park ant
Westport joined with citizens o
half a dozen Baltimore county lo
calities in protesting the location
Mr. Freburger declared:
"The zoning ordinance specific
ally prohibits the erection of a cor-
rectional or penal institution in a
residential-use area. Most of the
proposed site lies within the city
limits, only a negligible acreage
being in Baltimore county. Only a
very small frontage is zoned for
commercial use."
To Protest To Council
Mr. Freburger was joined in his
protest by his colleagues from the
Sixth district, Mrs. Ella A. Bailey
and Louis W. Kotmair, who de-
clared they would introduce a res-
olution at the City Council's next
meeting protesting the site picked
by the State Board of Public Works.
Said Mr. Kotmair:
• "We people down in this area
are tired of having everything the
rest of the city doesn't want
dumped in our laps."
Said Mrs. Bailey:
"If the State wants to undertake
the building project it will have to
come before the City Council for a
special ordinance, and the Council
will turn it down because the mem-
bers will follow the recommenda-
tions of the Sixth district delega-
tion and respect the wishes of our
constituents."
Over 300 Attended
Over 300 men and women, among
them official representatives of civ-
ic and improvement associations
from Baltimore Highlands, Rose-
mont. English Consul, Lakeland,
Dorchester Heights and Lansdowne,
filled every seat in the basement
auditorium of the Lakeland Pres-
byterian Church and standees over- of Public Works had approved the
flowed into two large anterooms. site on recommendation of an in-
State Senator George R. Della vestigation commission.
declared the Board of Public When Dr. Robinson declared it
Works had moved to adopt the site
"after it had been informed there was his desire "that the school not
was no public protest from the be placed in a community where
community."
it will be unfavorably received."
"The officials ought to see this there were cries of: "Well, you
gathering here tonight, and hear know now that we object."
their voices of protest," he said. It was agreed at the meeting to
Dr. J. Canby Robinson, member leave the direction of the fight to
of the board of managers of Chel- a master committee comprising
tenham, and J. Milton Patterson, three delegates designated by each
head of the State Department of group represented at the meeting.
Welfare, attended the meeting. and, meanwhile, to "file individual:
They explained that the Board protests with the Governor."