Philadelphia All-Star Nine
To Bring Girl Shortstop Here
By ROBERT ELMER
| Amateur baseball here appears don't hit much, Josephine may be
headed for a precedent-breaking said to be doing all right.
event Monday night at Bugle Field
when the Connie Mack League All-
Stars, of Philadelphia, meet Balti-
more's hand-picked Division of
Amateur Sports squad:
So far, ten players have been
chosen for the Philadelphía team.
Frank Clark, secretary for the local
club, presents Tomlin's roster.
showing nine boys as teammates for
Barring a last-minute change, a Josephine who is to handle the diffi-
16-year-old girl will play shortstop cult shortstop assignment.
Two Pitchers Named
for the visitors, and it's no use
arguing-there's nothing in the
rule book which says she isn't Two pitchers named to date are
Lefty Skillman, 16-year-old Ger-
eligible.
:
Furthermore, this isn't just a mantown High ace with a 6-2 log,
gag. For, while it may be true that and George Anderman, Cheltenham
the war has cut deeply into base- High hurler, with a 11-4 record. Be-
ball's manpower, take it from Joe spectacled Moe Rudden, of West
Tomlin, director of the Sandlot Catholic High, is the first baseman
Sports Association, which is select- with a .389 batting average.
ing the Philadelphia team, Jo- Around the keystone sack, Bob
sephine Brucker is quite a ball-Gruber, of Northeast Catholic
player.
High, will handle the second-base
chores, and figures to serve as a
Claimed To Be Star
"In fact," Tomlin says, "this fine pivot, just in case Josephine
young girl is as good a ballplayer gets a hold of a few in a double-play
for her age as any of the young lads situation. At third base, George
I've seen around the Philadelphia Moran, 15-year-old student of the
sandlots. And this covers a lot of Harding Junior High nine, has the
territory, and a number of years call.
before the war, too."
The outfield of Bob (Stonewall)
Josephine plays for the Plum- Jackson, Jack Wojcik and Francis
steadville A.C. nine. and finds wear- (Buster) Goodyear, packs eunsider-
ing glasses is no handicap at all, able offensive power. The trio are
either in fielding or hitting. Weigh- each hitting over .356. with Center-
ing 120 pounds and 5 feet 5 inches fielder Wojcik. Northeast High,
tall, she is currently sporting a pacing the group. Behind the plate.
.240 batting average. Considering Joe Idzik, captain of the Northeast
that even good. shortstops usually High nine, will labor.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.