NEGRO INDUSTRIAL FAIR
Mayor Mahool Compliments The
Exhibitors,
The negro State Industrial Fair opened
last night in Centre Hall, Centre Market
and Lombard street. The exhibits re-
flected great credit on those who took part
in their production, and the ball was hand-
somely decorated for the occasion with
bunting and national and State flags.
Mayor Mahool delivered an address in
which he commended those who had the
affair in charge and the spirit that prompted
them to show what the race could do. The
fair was held under the auspices of the
United Grand Lodge of Colored Masons,
and different lodges were represented by
booths in which were displayed articles of
a wide variety. Among the lodges repre-
sented,were those of Mount Horeb,
Lebanon, King David, Hannibal, Zion, St.
James, Friendship, Enterprise. St. John,
King Soloman, Mount Olive and the United
Grand Lodge...
At the booths were exhibits which cov-
ered a wide field and were interesting and
In many cases Instructive. Perhaps the
best exhibit of the fair was that from the
Colored Industrial School, at Cheltenham.
Numerous photographs showed what was
actually being done at the school, which
at the present time contains 273 boys.
Specimens of vegetables grown on the
farm, which is among the most productive
In Prince George's county, were as fine as
those seen in high-class markets. Every-
thing the boys at the school eat and wear
is made on the premises, and the preserves
and bread made would do credit to the best,
of cooks.
From unbleached materials there were
also exhibited shirts that had been made
at the school and at the Female Colored
Industrial School at Melvale. George H.
Siddons, a local florist, had some clever de-
signs in flowers, among others being good
representations of a railroad train, Masonic
designs, a fireman's hat, Elk's head and a
large design bearing "In God We Trust."
Pumpkins did not seem to be scarce on
the farm of a negro bearing the title of
Adam Washington, for he had one, said to
have come from Anne Arundel county,
which was enormous. 'Leaf tobacco grown
by J. H. Halsey was also a good exhibi-
tion of the productiveness of this county:
In other departments there were ex-
hibits of interest, in the department of
antiques a picture of Baltimore in 1752
attracting considerable attention. The fair
will continue every day, beginning at 1
P. M., until December 2..