Good News
About Cheltenham
Good news, for a change, about the Chel-
tenham School for Colored Boys.
For some time past the State has been
committed to the construction of a new Chel-
rtenham School, on a new site. The present
a school, located deep in the heart of Southern
e Maryland, is wholly inadequate as an insti-
-tution for delinquent colored boys. For cor-
e roboration see a long series of grand jury
e reports and special inquiries, not to mention
☐☐ the unceasing flow of bad news that has
temanated from the place.
The plan has been, therefore, to start
■ afresh, locating the new institution close to
= Baltimore; and there are good reasons for
- so locating it. Location near Baltimore will
- make it easier to obtain competent person-
=(nel for the operation of the institution-and
= personnel has been one of Cheltenham's
chronic difficulties. Location near Baltimore
will give the parents of inmates readier
access. Location near Baltimore will make
it possible to enter into arrangements for
practical vocational training. And location
near Baltimore, by giving access to the
utilities, will simplify many problems of
maintenance.
The trouble is that suitable sites are
scarce-and that most of the sites deemed
suitable have, when proposed, aroused
neighborhood objections.
Now an adequate site has not only been
found but has been bought and paid for.
The deal is done. The site is on the southern
periphery of the city, near the new Cherry
Hill development. Though it is unbeautiful
in its present condition, it is ample in size,
satisfies every requirement, and has been
approved by both the State Board of Wel-
fare and the Cheltenham board itself.
Thus the year begins auspiciously for
Cheltenham. True, the plans have still to be
drawn, and the plant to be built from them.
So the new Cheltenham still lies a consider-
able distance into the future. Even so, the
acquisition of a suitable site is something
positive and welcome.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.