Cheltenham School Staff
Placed On An Equal Basis
Superintendent Is Ordered To Abolish Restrictions
Segregating Colored From White Employes
By HULBERT FOOTNER
| The Board of Managers of the was agreeably surprised by what
Cheltenham School for Boys has I found there.
instructed Vance E. Thomas, super- Cheltenham is in Prince George's
intendent of the institution, to abol- county, seventy-five miles south of
Baltimore. You enter the grounds
ish all restrictions segregating the
under a winding avenue of fine
colored employes from the white.
elms. The old buildings, which be-
Hereafter all employes will be
long to what might be termed the
on an equal basis. Any white can-
Currier and Ives school of archi-
didate for employment who objects
tecture, are far from beautiful, but
to sharing the dining and the hous-
the avenue of trees, the lawns and
ing facilities with the colored per playing fields lend the scene no
sonnel, will be told that Chelten-
ham is not the place for him.
little charm. There is a 1,200-acre
farm in connection.
Under Many Handicaps
- Cheltenham was incorporated in
1870 by a group of Quakers in-
spired by the noblest motives. The
The institution is operating un-
largest grants in land and money der serious handicaps; insufficient
were made by Enoch Pratt, the funds; old, inadequate and unsuit-
founder of Baltimore's public li- able buildings; an overworked and
brary. The institution was then underpaid staff. The lack of a def-
called the House of Reformation inite policy in the past has filled
and Instruction for Colored Chil- the home with a mixture of delin-
dren.
Visit Is Described
quent, homeless and feebleminded
boys. This has made it impossible
to work out a rational scheme of
training.
This reporter recently visited the
old institution at the invitation of
the superintendent. Naturally the
Nevertheless the atmosphere of
visitor of a few hours cannot get Cheltenham at present is pretty
very far below the surface, but I) (Continued on Page 6, Column 2)
Cheltenham School Staff
Placed On An Equal Basis
Superintendent Is Ordered To Abolish Restrictions
Segregating. Colored From White Employes
By HULBERT FOOTNER
(Continued from Page 24)
good. That is something the ob passed an act to enable the State
server could hardly mistake. The to take over and on October 1 0
boys are cheerful and friendly. I that year, the State took title to
saw no sullen faces. The super Cheltenham.
visors, both white and colored, ap.
pear to be understanding people;
the relationship between boys and
supervisors is good.
Adverse reports continued to bo
brought in by the grand juries.
Governor O'Conor, after he in
herited Governor Nice's headache
One of the most frequent announced that he had appointed
charges brought from time to time
has been that the State does not
spend sufficient money to feed its for several weeks.
a secret investigating committed
which had already been at work
young wards adequately. Certainly
This Committee reported that it
seventeen cents a day plus about had not been given sufficient time
seven cents worth of farm prod-to survey the field, and the second
ucts is not much, but the boys I Committee was authorized by the
saw-and I saw them all-ap- Legislature of 1941.
peared to be healthy and well-
nourished.
Known as the Hepbron Commit-
tee from its chairman, James M.
I watched them eat their dinner. Hepbron, the second committee is
It was rough but good and plenti-
ful; boiled ham, cabbage, turnips,
with all the bread and milk they
sued its report in January this year.
and with this temperate and com-
prehensive document, a real foun-
dation for reconstruction was laid.
Two bills embodying the com-
wanted. There was a terrifiic racket
in the dining hall (330 boys scrap-
ing their plates), otherwise their
table manners were good-but mittee's recommendations now
that may have been because there await the Governor's signature.
were visitors,
Vegetables Are Traded
There was a deal of trading go-
ing on at the tables. One boy who
liked turnips better than anything
collected a huge mound of the yel-
How vegetables in exchange for his
ham and cabbage. It was a treat
to see how he patted it carefully
into a smooth mound before dig-
ging, in.
That which affects Cheltenham
places the colored reform school
under control of the State Board of
Welfare.
Recommendations Made
,
The Hepbron report, pointing out
the absolute necessity of separating
the delinquent boys from the de-
fectives, recommended that a new
institution be built for the former,
and the present plant be devoted
to boys of subnormal intelligence.
On January 24, 1941, Vance E.
Another table was occupied by
Doys so small they ought still to
nave been with their mothers. Thomas, a penologist of long stand-
These were not delinquent, but ing, was appointed superintendent
nomeless children. Cheltenham of Cheltenham.
mas taken them because there was In the fall of 1942, finding him-
no place else where they could be self hopelessly shorthanded he
sent. The smallest boy of all started applied to the selective service
to weep with embarrassment when board for a group of conscientious
me found us looking at him. That objectors. Twenty-three men were
vas the only sign of unhappiness sent him, of whom seventeen were
white and six colored.
Objector Dismissed
saw.
The boys are assorted according
o ages. They range from 7, which The white men were from North.
s too young, up to 20, which is too ern States and they resented the
old. I visited several of the cottages fact that white and colored em-
where they are housed. The general ployes were not on a footing of
rooms ranged from bleak to home- equality at Cheltenham. Charles
ike. It is the cottage masters, of Butcher, one of the objectors, agi-
course, who are responsible for the tated the matter so strenuously
Mifference. The right sort of man that after three months' service he
For this job is hard to find.
was dismissed for insubordination.
The trouble continued. In other
Cells In Cottages
One bad feature, inherited from respects the C.O.'s gave good serv-
he past, is the row of cells in each ice at Cheltenham; one serves as a
Lottage for solitary confinement. psychologist, one as a psychiatrist,
No boy is supposed to be punished two officers badly needed, which
without a hearing before the su- the institution could never afford
perintendent or his deputy, but cot before. But the agitation for equal
age masters are only human and rights divided the whole personnel
t has been charged that the boys into two camps and was destructive
were pushed around and locked up
-n bread and water when they The superintendent, Mr. Thomas,
vere impudent.
finally requested his board of man-
of discipline.
The place has always been a agers to lay down a policy for his
meadache to the authorities, both guidance. If only white men were
ounty and State. At different times to be employed at Cheltenham he
mmates have been charged with wished to resign, since he believed
rson, with holding up a truck on that colored men were essential in
he Crain Highway and in one case handling the boys. On the other
1936) with manslaughter.
hand, if none but colored men were
There have been frequent riots to be hired, he would resign be-
esulting in more or less damage cause in that case the institution,
the plant.
in his opinion, ought to have a col-
Finally in 1937 the Legislature ored superintendent.