NEW YEAR'S TIPS COSTLY
Americans In Paris Find Problem
An Alarming One.
NEW STREET AND SUBWAYS
Authorities Planning To Rellere
Congestion Of Trame-Chicago
Geta A Valuable Picture,
[Copyright, 1907, by New York Herald Compans.)
[Special to the Baltimore Sun.f
Paris, Dec. 28.-Americans of moderate
means living in Paris are finding the New
Year gift problem more than ever exact-
ing. because every servant, even the post-
man and butcher boy, demands a gratuity
of at least a dollar. The total amounts to
a considerable figure. What the Ameri-
cans cannot understand is why the Gor-
ernment not only recognizes. but approves,
the postmen's and other Government em-
ployes' annual demand on citizens.
The feature of the New Year's approach
is a group of nine lotteries, all to be drawn
now or within three months. The maximum
prize of any la no more than 500,000 francs
($100,000), but it is possible in the laws of
chance for one person to win 30,000,000
francs ($6,000,000) on one set of nine tick-
ets. French lotteries are permitted for
charitable purposes only, and as such are
approved by the Government.
New Street To Cure Congestion.
The congested appearance of the streets
of Paris and the difficulty of regulating
traffic has impressed the authorities with
the necessity of Introducing a radical rem-
edy.
It is projected to create a new street,
at først to run from the Madeleine to the
Place Vendome and later to continue to
the Avenue de l'Opera and Palais Royal.
Old Paris is fast disappearing. A struc-
ture in Place Louvois, where 100 years
ago the opera stood, is now being demol-
ushed. Here it was that Napoleon miracu-
lously escaped a home thrown by Arena,
where later Louvel was assassinated.
More Subways To Be Built.
The City Council has agreed to the con-
struction by the Metropolitan Electric
Railway of several new subways, Inchid-
ing an extension of Subway 7 to Boulevard
Morland, the extension of Line 3 to Porte
des Lilas, the extension of Line 4 from
Porte de Gentilly to Porte d'Orleans.
The line from Porte Saint Cloud to l'Op-
era via Trocadero is to be extended to the
Carrefour Drouot. When the Boulevard
Hausemann extension is completed several
other lines will be built if the above sub-
ways pay and a new loan can he raised.
Mail Pouch Forgotten In Corner.
= That American criticisms of French pos-
tal methods are well founded is again proved.
- A lawyer at Coret sent 80,000 francs ($10,-
000) in a registered letter to a contrere at
Castelnaudary. Weeks passed without the
arrival of the missive. Finally complaints:
led to an inquiry, and a mall bag was found
Intact forgotten in a corner at the Nar-
bonne station.
To facilitate rapid replies to letter cards
sent by pneumatic tubes the postal authorl-
ties have invented a card which contains
a card for reply. This can be detached and
a reply handed to a telegraph boy in walt-
ing, saving the person from going to the
nearest postoffice.
Valuable Pleture For Chicago.
The purchase by the Chicago Museum of
the "Assumption of the Holy Virgin," by
Greco, has given a new impetus to the
movement for a law to prohibit the ex-
portation of art treasures.
The picture belonged to Infante Don Se-
bastian, a brother-in-law of Queen Isabella
II, who possessed one of the most valuable
collections in Spain. It was for years in
the Prado Museum.
Left Legacy To Buy Toys.
The Duc de Berry income of 25.000 francs
($5,000), a legacy, will shortly be distrib-
uted to buy toys for poor children in Paris.
M. Vincent, an admirer of Victor Hugo,
following the poet's example on New Year's
Day, heid a fete for children of the poor.
Upon his death he provided by bequest to
continue his generous charity.
The French Government has just con-
cluded an agreement with the muulcipal
authorities of St. Germain-en-Laye for
building a university for young women in
that town. The institution will be fitted
with all modern appliances for scientifle
research, and will be conducted on the
same lines as the great English colleges for
women, such as Cheltenham and Bedford.
Monstrosities On IHeadgear.
The scope and fancies of milliners are il
limitable. Immense aigrettes, bunches of
feathers and groups of swallows and hum-
ming birds nave recently been employed
as decorations for headgear. There is now
a new rival. This is an owl's head, which
adds to the charm of novelty its reputation
as a mascot. Certainly this suits many
pretty faces.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.