This "Blackhand" Operator Colored
Paul Toopence, colored, 15 years old, an
amateur Blackhand operator, pleaded guilty
In the United States District Court yester-
day to sending a number of threatening
and defamatory letters through the mail
and was sentenced by Judge Morris to three
years in the Colored House of Reformation,
- at Cheltenham. The letters sent by Too-
pence demanded money under threats of
harm if the demands were not complied
with. The boy was arrested in the Fidelity
Building, after using the telephone to send
a threatening message to a negro he had
selected as a victim.
Mrs. Elsie E. Hess Divorced.
Elste E. Hess, 2100 Pennsylvania ave-
nue, was granted an absolute divorce yes-
terday from John L. Hess and the custody
of their child. They were married July 13,
1902, and separated February 5, 1904, The
divorce was granted for abandonment.
Seaboard Cross-Bill Filed.
A cross-bill of complaint for the appoint-
ment of receivers for the Seaboard Air
Line Rallway Company was filed in the
United States Circuit Court yesterday by
the Continental Trust Company, through
Lemmon & Clotworthy, attorneys. The
cross-bill is similar to the cross-bill filed by
the trust company against the rallwaycom-
pany in Richmond. Messrs. S. Davies War-
field, of Baltimore; R. Lancaster Williams,
of Richmond, and Edward O. Duncan, of
Raleigh, who were appointed receivers for
the Seaboard system under the bill of com-
plaint filed by the railway company against
the trust company, were also appointed
Maryland receivers under the cross-bill.
ALLENS COMING TO MARYLAND
Immigration Burenu's Report Is
Highly Optimistic.
The second blennial report of the Bureau
of Immigration of Maryland, which has
Just been issued, contains a number of in-
teresting satistics. The report declares
that the bureau is bringing more immi-
grants to Maryland at a smaller expense
than are brought to any other State in the
South. It is claimed that the bureau has
greatly relieved the stringency of farm-
hands. The statistics show that during the
Host two years 21,704 Europeans landed in
the United States with the intention of
settling in Maryland. During the years of
1006 and 1907 there arrived at the port of
Baltimore 120,974 allens, consisting of 90,-
344 males and 30,630 females. About 15
per cent. of the entire number found em-
ployment in Maryland, while the remainder
were shipped West by the railroads.
The report also tells in detail of the new
settlers in this State from other States in:
the Union. The Board of Commissioners
Is composed of Dr. W. Whitehill and
Messrs. Henry S. Mancha and William T.
P. Turpin. Mr. A. F. Trappe is the secre- <
tary.
1