57% OF INMATES
TERMED MORONIC
Figure Is In Grand Jury's
Cheltenham Statement

More than 57 per cent of the in-
mates of the Cheltenham School for
Negro youths are of subnormal
intelligence, imbecilic or moronic
and should be in an institution for
mental defectives, acccording to a
special report filed yesterday by
the Baltimore grand jury.
The grand jury's interim report
came simultaneously with the an
nouncement that a site for a new
Cheltenham School had been pur-
chased in the Cherry Hill section
at a cost of $45,000 and that $36,500
is being spent on necessary im-
provements to the present school.
It is expected that the old school
will be used for the mentally de
ficient inmates referred to in the
grand jury report.
Continued Custody Asked
An inspection of the school by a
grand jury committee headed by
Harry W. Neepier was made last
November 8, the grand jury report
submitted to Judge Herman M.
Moser in Criminal Court disclosed.
Discussing the mentality of the
present inmates of the institution,
(Continued on Page 14, Column 4)

the grand jury reported that out o
150 inmates given intelligenc
tests, 86 were found to be suk
normal, imbeciles or morons. Al
those youths should be under th
care of the State Department o
Mental Ilygiene or in an institu
tion for feeble-minded, the juror
stated.
The jurors also contended tha
the mentally deficient inmates
should not be sent back to society
but should remain under perma
nent custodial care.
Segregation System Suggested
The committee suggested that
youths at the institution should be
grouped in the four cottages there
according to mental capacities.
rather than according to age, as is
presently done.
The investigating panel noted
that society is "experiencing a
repetition of crime" by former in-
mates of Cheltenham.
The cominittee reported that the
buildings are in need of paint and
repairs, that the grounds are in a
"deplorable state," that the ree-
reational program is inadequate
and that there is a need of a "sys-
tem of positive discipline" flexible
enough to meet the needs of those
mentally defective.
Over 700 Escapes In Year
On the question of discipline, the
committee reported that although
such punitive measures as solitary
confinement, bread-and-water diets
and severe corporal punishment are
no longer employed, the authorities
at the school have gone to the other
extreme and are not now using ade.
quate disciplinary methods.
To support that statement, the
jurors pointed out that there have
been over 700 escapes from the in-
stitution within the past year.
Difficulty in obtaining adequate
employés on the staff of the insti-
tution also is being experienced,
the committee reported. It was
noted that at the time of the inspec-
tion last November, there were 31
vacancies, due mostly to the short-
age of applicants.
Improvements Since Inspection
In announcing the purchase of tem of education to meet the needs most of the inmates come from Bal-
the new 122/2-acre site between of the various mental types is being timore city, the new location will
the Hollins Ferry road and the Old put into effect. The Governor also permit more frequent visits by
Annapolis road, Governor O'Conor noted that escapes have been on parents. He also contended that the
informed the grand jury that many the decline.
new location's proximity to in-
dustrial plants will facilitate voca-
tional placement of the boys.
of the defects found at the present Advantages Of New Location
location are being remedied under The jurors also were advised that
the direction of Thomas B. Sprague,
Finally, the new president de-
new president of the board of man- the furnaces have been repaired
agers.
and are in good working condition clared that having the school close
The Governor said fifteen new and that painting and other needed to Baltimore will make it easier to
staff members have been added improvements are being made with obtain a better staff. The present
since the jury made its inspection the $36,500 allotment.
school is in Prince Georges county
and a program calling for a sys- Mr. Sprague asserted that since about 50 miles from the city.