THIS BULLET A LIVE ONE
Colored Lads Test It In Blaze And
White Boy Is Hit.
Samuel Goldenberg, 8 years old, 821
West Lombard street, was seriously injured
In an unusual accident Monday.
Jacob Chapman and Addison Jackson,
two colored youths, stopped at Vine and
Arch streets and began to discuss the com-
bustible property of a number of pistol
cartridges which Addison had. To prove
that the cartridges were no good Chapman
wrapped one of the bullets in a paper, and
placing it on the pavement, lit the wrapper.
Chapman guessed wrong. In a few moments
the blaze had melted the shell of the car-
tridge and it exploded with a bang, which
caused Patrolman Garrigan to hurry to the
scene. The discharged ball struck young
Goldenberg, who was near by, in the chest.
He was taken to the University Hospital,
where it was said the bullet had struck a
rib directly over the heart. Goldenberg was
later taken to his home.
At the hearing before Justice Loden, at
the Western Police Station, yesterday morn-
ing Jackson was sent to Cheltenham
charged with incorrigibility, while Chapman
was paroled in the custody of his father
pending the outcome of young Goldenberg's
injury.
TO REVISE BANKING LAWS
Governor Crothers Appoints A State
Commission.
Governor Crothers, in response to a sug-
gestion of the recent convention of the
Maryland Bankers' Association, appointed
a commission of bankers to review the ex-
isting banking laws and make recommen-
dations to the next Legislature as to what
improvements and changes are needed. The
commission is composed of:
Messrs.-
Joseph D. Baker,
Douglas H. Thomas,
Charles T. Crane,
Joshua W. Miles,
James R. Wheeler,
Jolin B. Ramsay,
Georgo L. Wellington
Charles C. Homer,
Harvey Cooper,
Robert B. Dixon,
GEN. SHRYOCK TO BE THERE
Masonic St. John's Lodge of Boston
Will Celebrate.
[Special Dispatch to the Baltimore Sun.]
Boston, Sept. 22.-A celebration that is
Interesting the Masons of the East, and
which will be notable for the presence of
the Grand Masters from the original Thir-
teen States, is planned for the one hundred
and seevnty-fifth aniversary of the found-
Ing of St. John's Lodge, in Boston.
The Grand Master of. Maryland, Gen.
Thomas J. Shryock, of Baltimore, has signi-
fied his intention to join in the celebration,
and acceptances have been received from
all of the other Grand Masters of the Thir-
teen States. Nova Scotia will also be rep-
resented, on account of its early association
with the Massachusetts lodge.
The celebration will take place October
4, 5 and 6, ending with a banquet to the
Grand Masters and a brilliant ball.
:
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.