MARLBORO JAIL VISITED
Prisoners' Aid Secretary- Finds
Much To Criticise.
INMATES ALLOWED TO MINGLE
V
Sanitary Conditions Declared To Be
Thoroughly Bad-New Building
Recommended.
Mr. J. O. Stutsman, general secretary of
the Prisoners' Aid Assocation, visited the
Prince George's County Jail, at Upper
Marlboro, and reported its condition to
Mr. DeCourcy W. Thom, chairman of the
county work. He says:
"The building is constructed, of brick,
two stories high, 25 feet square, and is sur-
rounded by a tall stockade of boards about
70 feet square. This fence gives privacy,
but not protection from within or with-
out. Prisoners could easily vault it from
within and a mob could easily batter it
down from without. A public execution
would be a public spectacle. It affords an-
other evidence of the need of a central
place for executions.
"The building is antique in plan. Few
cells face upon a central corridor. Each
cell is entered by a door 2 feet 8 inches by
7 feet. The bars of the door are so close
that a hand could not be inserted between
them. The interior of each cell is well
lighted. most of them having outside win-
dows 28 by 48 inches and doubly barred.
The cells and floors are all of brick. The
cells are unuusally large, seven being 12
by 15 feet and the remainder 7½ by 12
feet.
"Having these facilities in cell space and
segregation, it was thoroughly inexplicable
why the jall administration should find it
necessary to confine 10 prisoners in two
cells. In one cell there were five colored
males, two of whom were young boys
awaiting transportation to the Cheltenham
Reformatory. It is very obvious that such
an indiscriminate mingling of adults and
juveniles is highly conducive to immoral-
ity and habitual crime. Such a system must
be thoroughly condemned and should be
rectified at once by the jail administrators,
"The beds are simply cheap mattresses
placed on the bare floors. Some of the
mattresses were very ragged, straw was
scattered over the cell floor, while others
were new and clean.
Sewer Choked Up.
"The sanitary conditions of the building
were thoroughly bad. After my visit to
this jall in the summer of 1907 I recom-
mended the introduction of a sewerage sys-
tem. The sewer was constructed; but at
the time of my present visit the sewer was
wholly clogged, and its mouth, which is
close to the building, usually was full of
putrid matter, filling the air with disease
bacteria.. This sewer had been abandoned,
and now buckets are used in the cells and
are emptied into a hole outside of the
prison enclosure-a system which thor-
oughly disgusts a visitor, is a menace to
the community and a disgrace to the coun-
ty. The lay of the land adjacent to the
jall offers abundant facilities for a good
sewerage system.
"It was noticed that the interior of the
prison had been recently whitewashed and
presented a more cleanly appearance than
at the time of my former visit.
""There were 17 inmates-13 colored and
4 white; 15 males and 2 females. One only
was a sentenced prisoner, one was imbe-
cllic and should have been otherwise cared
for, and 13 were awaitng trial for the
October term of court.
No Work For Prisoners.
"Nothing at all in the way of industry
was provided; the inmates were living out
their days in idleness, being taught by the
community to be public charges. It will
be a blessed day for the State when the
value and efficacy of industry are fully
grasped for the prevention of crime-that
It is contrary to good economics to have
to sustain those convicted of delinquency
entirely at the public expense. We also
have here a further exhibition of the im-
morality of detaining those suspected of
crime for a long period before trial.
"The dietary program consisted of two
meals each day, which appeared perfectly
wholesome and sustaining.
"It is not unusual for the warden to
lock up the jail while he is on other busi-
ness throughout the town.
"This jall is not at all adequate and
should be superseded at once by a proper
structure for the housing and care of those
convicted of crime and those detained upon
suspicion. This jall has more inmates
usually than the average county jail owing
to its proximity to Washington. There
have recently been as many as 28 inmates
in the jail at one time.
"No systematic religious services have
been held.
"Efforts will be made to establish a local
committee in Upper Marlboro for the im
provement of conditions."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.