DELINQUENCY
STUDY HELD
LACKING HERE
Situation Discussed By
Head Of Public Wel-
fare Department
The lack of resources for re-
ceiving and studying delinquent
children before they are assigned
to programs in State training
schools is "the largest gap found
in the present program," J. Milton
Patterson, director of the State De-
partment of Public Welfare, said
yesterday.
The degree of delinquency, he
added, "is not a factor."
• Governor O'Conor recently asked
the Legislative Council to give fur-
ther consideration to the State's
system of handling juvenile delin-
quents and said an intermediate
institution for "difficult" cases may
be the solution.
...
Mr. Patterson said "it is felt that
the new Juvenile Court law
improves the possibility of the
proper selection of children for
care in the State training schools
and should prevent children under
16 being sent to the House of Cor-
rection. ."
254 Boys Committed.
Figures from the State Depart
ment of Correction showed that
the State's two penal institutions
for males received 214 boys, who
previously had been committed to
the training schools, in the fiscal
year that ended June 30, 1944, and
that in the fiscal year ended last
June, the number thus received
was 254. Many of the boys were re-
ported to be under 16.
In the 1944 fiscal year, the House
of Correction received 51 who had
been committed to the Maryland
Training School for Boys, and 102
from Cheltenham, training school
for Negro boys. The Penitentiary,
in the same period received 25
from the Maryland Training School
and 36 from Cheltenham.
In the 1945 fiscal year, the House
of Correction received 75 who had
been committed to the Maryland
Training School and 119 who had
been committed to Cheltenham.
The Penitentiary received three
from the Maryland Training School
and 35 from Cheltenham, and the
State Reformatory for Males re-
ceived three from the Maryland
Training School and eight from
Cheltenham.
Situation In Other States
Meanwhile, figures compiled by
the general secretary of the Ameri-
can Prison Association showed
that training schools and corre-
sponding institutions in 36 States
received delinquent boys at ages
higher than the 16-year-old limit
in Maryland. In some of the States
(Continued on Page 14, Column 4)
DELINQUENCY
STUDY LACKING
has been done by the State Depart. intelligent decision made as to his
ment of Public Welfare with train- needs. Every effort is being made
ing schools and local welfare to assist the training schools in re-
boards in an effort to co-ordinate cruiting staffs. Recommendations
facilities, Mr. Patterson said "rules have been made that salaries be in-
and regulations have been promul-creased and higher qualifications
gated, which clearly state that the be established so as to make avail-
training schools should receive able efficient personnel to promptly
children who are committed to give to the child the training he
Situation Discussed By Head them after it has been determined needs so that the length of his stay
that they cannot be adjusted in in the institution may be reduced."
their own homes or in foster
homes."
Of Welfare Unit
(Continued from Page 24)
girls were received at even higher
:
Progress Made
Mr. Patterson said "it is unfor-
"And the regulations clearly tunate that there is not as much
state that these schools are not being done about preventing de-
suitable for the feeble-minded linquency, dependency and neglect
ages.
child or the psychotic child, but as is being done about treatment."
Among the States listed and the the degree of delinquency is not a He said the State Department of
age limits for receiving delinquents factor," he said.
Public Welfare "has given a lot of
were: Alabama, 7 to 18; Arizona, "Local communities," Mr. Patter- its time to re-examining and re-
up to 18; Arkansas, up to 18; son continued, "have been asked drafting its programs for the care
Negroes, up to 21; California, 8 to to assist the training schools by of children, especially the delin-
15, boys; 8 to 21, girls; Delaware, providing for their children when quent and disturbed child, but this
10 to 17; Florida, 12 to 17; Idaho, it is felt they are ready to return takes much time and is never ac-
10 to 18; Iowa, 10 to 18; Indiana, to the community.
complished as quickly as we would
10 to 18; Kentucky, 10 to 18; Min- "When the population of the like."
nesota, 8 to 18; Montana, 8 to 18. training school is free of children "Maryland," he concluded, "has
Constant Work Cited
who do not belong there, the pro- made considerable progress, but
Mississippi, Nevada, North Da-gram can be more readily adapted there are still many difficulties to
kota, Pennsylvania and Wyoming to its main purpose....
overcome; and individuals and
receive boys up to 21 years of age.
"The program that is now being groups must co-operate to make
Cklahoma receives Negro boys up developed requires sufficient and more effective use of the facilities
to 21.
well-qualified staffs. A child must that we have, and to expand where
| Citing the "constant work" that be treated as an individual, and and it is found advisable to do so."