STATE INSTITUTIONS Correction.
USE PICTURE REELS
lospitals For Insane And Re-
formatories Include Films On
Recreation Programs.
COMEDIES LEAD IN FAVOR
inema: Also Said To Aid Feeble
Minded In Regaining
Faculties.
Boys Like Western Shows.
At the Marsland Training School for
Boys movies have been shown for three
rears, being supplied by a local theater.
Jowboy, Western and Indian subjects
are most in demand. At St. Mary's In-
lustrial School films are shown weekly,
and Brother Paul, head of the institu-
ion, says that they are a great aid.
At the Maryland Tuberculosis Sana-
orium films are projected three or four
ime a week, with comedies leading the
ist and educational reels coming next.
At the Cheltenham Reformatory for
Colored Boys, films are shown.oc
asionally. At the Eastern Shore State
Hospital, comedies are first in favor
mong the patients, while at the Rose-
vood School the only condition is that
he pictures must be free from any sug-
gestion of incendiarism or other crim-
nal conduct. They are used exten-
ively in this institution.
With only one exception, 111 the
State institutions for the insane and
che reform schools, the Penitentiary and
the House of Correction are using
motion pictures regularly to entertain
News Reels Also Popular.
the inmates and prisoners. This was
At Crownsville Hospital, animal pic-
revealed yesterday by the Board of Wel-ures are favorites. Springfield State
Fare, which recently made a survey of Hospital expresses its preference for
the institutions in compliance with a comedies and news reels. These films
request of Will H. Hays, president of help the patients recover their mental
the Motion-Picture Producers and Dis-
tributors of America.
powers, according to Dr. J. Clement
Clarke, superintendent of the institu-
ion. The same thing applies at Spring
Grove Hospital, where comedies again
ead the list, it was shown.
According to the superintendents of
Spring Grove and Springfield State
Hospitals, the motion pictures shown
there have a soothing effect upon the
nmates and materially aid their re-utions presided over by Col. Claude B.
eovers. In all the institutions the films
are looked upon as a great aid because
of the diversion from routine which
hey afford.
Hays Explains Plan,
Robert D. Case, secretary of the Wel-
Eare Board, wrote all the heads of the
Institutions asking their comment on
the type of film most suitable for their
patients and prisoners, this being in
Line with Mr. Hays' request. In his
etter to Governor Ritchie, Mr. Hays
said that he had learned recently
Chrough the Russell Sage. Foundation of
the usefulness of movies in institutions.
This knowledge has made his associa-
Lion more anxious than ever to carry
Out their pledged purpose of developing
the general usefulness of the motion
picture, he said.
Comedies are the prevailing favorites
in all the institutions, it was shown,
with the educational reels coming next.
Melodramatic films are omitted for obvi-
Dus reasons, while short-reel subjects
are most in demand in all places ex-
But the order is shifted at the insti-
Sweezey. At the Penitentiary long per-
ormances are given weekly, with seven
or nine ree)s as the attraction. Two
hows are given weekly at the House of
Correction, one for the men and the
ther for the women prisoners. The
same thing which attracts movie audi-
ences outside prison walls attracts them
The only difference is, he said, that the
inmates are more appreciative than the
folks on the outside.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.