Alexander's, Battery Has Reunion
The twenty-ninth annual banquet of
Alexander's Battery, a Union battery in the
Civil War, was held Inst night at the New
Carrollton Hotel. Eleven members of the
battery, of which, out of 360 men, only 40
| are living, were present. Among the deco
rations was a facsimile of the old guidon,
presented by the late Charles L., Murburg,
and having on it the names of the engage
ments in which the battery fought.
The toastmaster was Mr. William Weitzel
Responses were made by Brig.-Gen. Peter
Leary, Jr., U. S. A. (retired), who was the
battery's second lieutenant; Messrs. Wil
liam II. Moffett, Jr., John Wright and FW
Wild, Jr.
The following officers were elected:
President-Edward Fitzpatrick.
Vice-President-John Wright.
Treasurer-William H. Moffett, Jr.
Secretary-Fred W. Wild.
Sergeant-at-Arms-William Weitzel.
L
For Newsboys' Festival.
As has been the custom for the last 26
years, the Newsboys' Association of Balti
more, consisting of Miss Ellen H. Perot,
president; Mr. Douglas M. Wylie, vice
president; Mrs. William H.. Perot, treas
urer, and Mr. R. Lloyd Chamberlaine, sec
retary, will entertain the members of the
Newsboys Club at Germania Mænnerchor
Hall on Christmas Eve.
-!
The Governor and the Mayor, have been
invited to attend, and, as usual, ex-Mayor
Ferdinand C. Latrobe will deliver the prizes
to those boys who have been the most pro
ficient in their, work. Revs. Edwin B
Niver and John G. Murray are expected
to talk to the boys. There will be 650
tickets delivered among the boys during
the latter part of next week.
The club is in need of about $1,200 to
continue this work.
८
5
11
Mr. Stone To Be Vice-President.
Collector of the Port William F. Stone
has been asked to be the Maryland vice-
president of the new Republican Business
Men's League, which was formed a few
nights ago in New York and which is to!
have branches in every large city in the
country. The league was formed at a din
ner given by Mr. Charles Hitchcock Sher
rill, in New York, to which Mr. Stone was,
invited, but which he could not attend. He
has agreed to serve as vice-president of the
league, and will name six Republican bust
ness men to serve as an executive com
mittee from this State.
Talbot County Officials Here,
Sheriff A. E. Welsh, of Talbot county,
was in Baltimore yesterday with a batch of
prisoners convicted at the recent term of
court there. Ile delivered three to the pen-
itentiary, six to the House of Correction
nud one to the House of Reformation for
Colored Boys, at Cheltenham. Sheriff
Welsh was assisted in caring for the pris-
oners by former Sheriff Ira Caulk, also of
Talbot county. After their official work
had been attended to the two called on
Commodore Thornton Rollins, president of
the Maryland National Bank. Mr. Rollins
has a farm in Talbot county, where he
spends much of his time in the summer.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.