Dr. Bell Refused To Loan On Draft.
Miss Virginia M. Gulld, who was re-
leased on ball Sunday morning by Justice
Tyson, at the Northwestern Police Station,
on the charge of obtaining $375 on an
alleged bogus draft from Theodore D. Olm-
stead, 323 West Lexington street, was said
yesterday to have approached Rev. Dr.
- Ezra K. Bell, of the First English Lu-
theran Church, early last fall for a loan
Con a draft. Rer. Dr. Bell declined to make
any advance.
According to Miss Guild, the real culprit
in the case is a step-nephew, R. Morris
Price. He is said to have made a losing
venture with $7,000 or $8,000 received by
Miss Guild through inheritance, and to
have palmed off a quantity of fictitious
drafts on her for disposal. A warrant has
been sworn out for Price.
Rev. Dr. Damuth Resigns.
After placing his resignation in the
hands of the vestry last Thursday night
and being asked by that body to recon-
sider his resignation, Rev. Dr. Warren J.
Damuth, rector of St. Luke's Episcopal
Church, announced to the congregation
Sunday, morning that he had accepted a
call to St. Mark's Church, Philadelphia.
Mr. Damuth's work at St. Luke's has been
successful, and the announcement was re
ceived with regret by the congregation.
Dr. Damuth has been rector of St. Luke's
since May, 1907. He succeeded Rev. Charles
A. Coit and came to this city from Calvary
Church, Philadelphia.
Endeavorers Complete Plans,
A schedule for the next two or three
months was outlined at the monthly meet-
ing of the Christian Endeavor Union held
last night at the Memorial Evangelical
Church, Fremont and Edmondson avenues.
Mr. James O. Moul, president, presided.
A temperance meeting, to be addressed by
Rev. M.S. Poulson, assistant superinten-
dent of the Antisaloon League, will be held
at the Associate Congregational Church,
Maryland avenue and Preston street, Sun-
day evening, while on April 22 a mission-
ary loan exhibit, an innovation for this
city, will be held at the Babcock Memorial
Church, Madison and North avenues. May
17 has been set apart for the annual social
of the union.
Managers For Cheltenham.
The annual election of managers, rep-
resenting the subscribers, to the House of
Reformation for Colored Boys was held yes-
terday afternoon at the office of the secre-
tary, Mr. Joseph J. Janney, and the fol-
lowing members were reappointed to serve
for another year:
Messrs.-
Edward Stabler, Jr.,
Joseph J. Janney,
Thomas E. Curson,
C. C. Magruder,
Edward Stinson,
Nathaniel G. Grasty.
John Hubner,
H. S. Dulaney,
Rer. G. F. Bragg, Jr.,
Dr. W. H. Gibbons,
J. Henry Murray,
William B. Clagett,