Sane Fourth At Orangeville.
The Fourth of July celebration at Orange-
ville will be in charge of the Orangeville
Methodist Episcopal Sunday-school and the
Tennis Club. There will be a ball game in
the morning between the married and the
single men and in the afternoon there will
be a game between young men and young
women. There will also be races and tennis
contests. In the evening a carnival will be
held, followed by fireworks.
Special Trains For Pen-Mar,
The Western Maryland Railway Company
is making elaborate preparations for a big
Fourth of July celebration at Pen-Mar, and
four special trains will be run from Balti-
more. There will also be special excursions
from points on the main line and Baltimore
and Harrisburg divisions.
In order that there shall be no over-
crowding, reserved seats will be provided
for in the four special trains, which may be
procured Monday without extra charge at
the Western Maryland ticket office, Balti-
more and Light streets.
SHRINERS TO BOOM BALTIMORE
Boumi Temple Will Endeavor To
Get Convention Here In 1912.
Boumi Temple of Mystic Shriners is mak-
ing plans for attending the annual conven-
tion of the Imperial Council of the Ancient
Arabic Order, Nobles of the Mystic Shrine,
at Rochester, N. Y. The members are, de-
termined to get the 1912 convention for
Baltimore. Each member will be tagged,
"Meet me in Baltimore in 1912.
Frank W. Dryden, potentate, Boumi
Temple. and one of the representatives to
the national gathering, had a conference
yesterday with Edwin L. Quarles, director
of the Greater Baltimore Committee, and
requested him to accompany the delega-
tion on the trip to Rochester for the pur-
pose of giving all assistance he can in the
direction of securing the 1912 convention
for Baltimore. Mr. Quarles is arranging
to have an immense photograph made
of the interior of the Fifth Regiment
Armory, for the purpose of showing the
gathering at Rochester.
Final arrangements for the trip were
made last night. About 150 will go from
Baltimore and will travel on a special train,
leaving over the Baltimore and Ohio rail-
road at 8.20 A. M. July 9, the sessions
being held July 11 and 12. Headquarters
will be at the Whitcomb House.
Colored Reform Home Visited.
The managers of the House of Reforma-
tion for Colored Boys, Cheltenham. Prince
George's county, made their annual inspec-
tion of the building Thursday. A special
train which left Union Station at 7.30 in
the morning carried the party to Chelten-
bam, and during the day the visitors were
entertained by a competitive drill, base-
ball, races and other games.
Among those who went from Baltimore
were Messrs. Thomas J. Shryock, -presi-
dent of the institution; Joseph J. Janney,
secretary: Edward Stabler, Jr., treasurer;
John B. Pyle, Benjamin B. Sunderland and
Dr. William H. Gibbons.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.