FROM $30 TO $100 AN ACRE
What Mr. Heitmuller Has Done
With Waste Farm Land.
W. Charles Heitmuller, who owns a
tract of land in Prince George's county,
has solved the problem offered by aban-
doned farm lands in Maryland.
The tract is near enough to Washington
so that its proximity to the District of
Columbia gives the land a value as a pos-
sible future addition to the city, regard-
less of its lack of productive qualities
when purchased by Mr. Heitmuller; but it
is the same sort of land that in Maryland
is generally regarded as unproductive and
comparatively valueless. The land was
bought four years ago at $30 an acre. In-
telligent treatment and scientitle methods
of cultivating have increased the value, be-
cause of its increased productiveness, to
$100 an acre.
When Mr. Heitmuller bought the farm
the land hardly produced weeds; last year
30 acres of it produced 6,000 crates of
cantaloupes that in the Washington, Phila-
delphia and New York markets brought
twice as much money as New Jersey's.
While the New Jersey cantaloupes were
selling at from 75 cents to $1.50 a crate
those from Mr. Heitmuller's farm in
Maryland readily brought from $2 to $2.50
a-crate.
"Waste Land" Proves Valuable.
.This "waste land," abandoned because
of its unproductiveness, is now producing
200 crates of cantaloupes to the acre that
bring 50 per cent. more in price than the
best grown in New Jersey and elsewhere.
And they were not grown in the bottoms,
but on the uplands. Mr. Ileitmuller says
he is raising other crops to correspond
on his land.
The lands that are now offered at nomi-
nal prices, due to impoverishment by ren-
son of continuous farming without replen-
ishment of the elements that contribute
to plant growth, have only to be treated
intelligently to be made to yield abun-
dantly.
How Population Affects It.
The increase of population, requiring an
increasing volume of products from the
field and garden to supply the markets of
the growing towns and cities, is causing
people to consider what measures to take
for maintaining the supply and increasing
it. To facilitate the project of not only
making two blades of grass grow where
only one grew before, to enable the garden-
ers and farmers to produce from their
lands larger crops of, and better quality.
and to promote rehabilitation of the soil.
the Government is spending vast sums in
educating the farming people how to farm
scientifically.
Mr. Heitmuller's achievement is not so
easy as it sounds. He spent three years
experimenting before he perfected the seed
he believed would be adapted to the soil,
and he learned how to treat the soll in a
way to increase its productive powers.
Finds Watermelons Unprofitable.
He was asked whether he tried to grow
watermelons. "No." he said, "watermel-
ons don't bring more than about $25 a
Lundred, and they are so heavy that the
expense of bringing them to market is too
much to justify the effort. If, however, a
number of people were to go about raising
cantaloupes, watermelons, small fruits and
rården truck along the railway lines to
ship in car lots, it would pay well. I am
talking now about community farming-
commercializing it. That is the only way
by which refrigerator cars could be protit-
ably utilized. I would like to see the lands
adjacent to my farm rehabilitated. I am
very well satisfied with my experiments.
Two hundred crates of cantaloupes that
bring an average of $1.55 a crate the sea-
son through from ar acre of land that cost
$30 is not a bad speculation. I expect to
get better results next year."
Mr. Heitmuller declares that there are
thousands of young farmers earning a poor
living from their lands who could make
themselves comfortably well off if they
would show the enterprise requisite to
hard study and a respect for the scientiile
knowledge of our day.
In Warmed-Out" District.
In Southern Maryland, right in the heart
of the "farmed-out' district, is located
the House of Reformation, for incorrigible
colored boys. It is near Cheltenham Sta-
tion, in Prince George's county. Forty
years ago the several hundred acres of land
belonging to the State as a part of the in-
stitution was a "farmed-out" waste.
In
Capable, determined and energetic men
have had charge since its inception.
1870 the land was unproductive. In the
seventies Baltimore had not yet become fa-
miliar with the electric trolley. 'The street
cars were propelled by horse and muie
energy. The management of the institu-
tion obtained the right to use the manure
from the street car stables. They also
bought lime. The land was fertilized and
selentifically cared for. It has been brought
to a high stage of cultivation. It is an
agricultural oasis in the midst of an agri-
cultural land desert. It cost knowledge
and effort to reclaim it.
At the colored State industrial fair the
exhibit of this farm was the best. Today
that farm is producing enough to feed
about 300 hungry, hardy colored boys on
the "fat of the land' and is selling prod-
ucts besides to assist in the maintenance
of the reformatory.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.