ARMSTRONG MAY ASK
BASEBALL SUIT HEARING
Question Of Using Force To End
Sunday Games To Go Be-
fore Court.
MAY 21 IS TENTATIVE DATE
Case Probably Wil Go To Judge
Walter I. Dawkins In Form
Of Mandamus.
A request probably will be made by
Attorney-General Armstrong, through
Assistant Attorney-General Allan H..
Fisher, that the initial hearing on the
mandamus to compel the use of force
by the Police Department to prevent
Sunday baseball be granted a week from
next Saturday.
Judge Walter I. Dawkins probably
will hear the plea of the Lord's Day
Alliance in support of the mandamus,
he having been assigned to all special
cases in the City Court, the other judges
attending to the routine work.
The mandamus suit was filed several
weeks ago by the Alliance asking the
court to direct Police Commissioner
Gaither to use force to prevent Sunday
-baseball. Through Attorney-General
Armstrong. Commissioner Gaither an-
swered that he is enforcing the law as
it should be enforced, by obtaining
the names of alleged violators and pre-
senting them to the grand jury. As
the grand jury refuses to indict, the
Police Commissioner holds he can go no
further. A trial by jury, on questions
of fact, is asked in the Gaither answer.
To this answer the Lord's Day Alli-
ance demurred, and it is on the demurrer
that the original hearing will be held.
Finish Fight Indicated
In Strike Of Printers
Both Sides Express Determination
Not To Yield On 44-
Hour Week.
With no indications of an early set-
tlement, the printers' strike entered its
second week yesterday. Officials of the
typographical, pressmen and bookbind-
ers' unions announced that they are de-
termined to carry the fight for the
4-4-hour week to the finish, while the
employers declared they would not grant
the shorter week if the strike lasted in-
definitely.
George K. Horn, president of the
Typothete, said that four of the largest
printing firms in Baltimore have come
out for the open shop. They are, he
said, the Williams & Wilkins Com-
pany, Thomsen-Ellis Company, Meyer
& Thalheimer and Kohn & Pollock.
The industrial relations committee of
the Typothetæ, it was announced by
Mr. Horn, has decided that it considers
all agreements, promises and offers at
an end.
23 WOULD BE STATE BUYER
Applicants Seek Post Of Purchasing
Agent-Inquiry On Today.
Twenty-three applications for the
post of State Purchasing Agent had
been received by Governor Ritchie yes-
terday evening, but none had received
anything but the most casual considera-
tion. Nineteen of the applications are
in writing and are accompanied by a
long list of qualifications each applicant
advances for himself. The four others
have come in the form of recommenda-
tions from political leaders.
While the Governor is giving his at-
tention to the selection of a Purchasing
Agent the committee named several
weeks ago to investigate the methods of
the Purchasing Bureau and report on
means to avoid friction will begin its
work. Col. Claude B. Sweezey, chair-
man of this committee, has called a meet-
ing for this afternoon. Governor Ritchie
probably will attend and help outline the
course of the investigation.
QUITS REFORMATION BOARD
P. L. Goldsborough Sends His Res-
ignation To The Mayor.
Former Governor Phillips Lee Golds-
borough yesterday sent to Mayor Broen-
ing his resignation as a city director in
the management of the House of Refor-
mation for Colored Boys, Cheltenham.
"This is done," Mr. Goldsborough said
In his letter to the Mayor, "for the sole
reason that I find my daily business en-
gagements are such as to preclude prompt
attendance upon the meetings of the
board.
"I had hoped to be able to render
proper service, but now, finding that I
shall not be able to attend meetings with
regularity, it is but just to you that I
should resign as a member of that body."