ASSAIL CONDITIONS
AT 2 INSTITUTIONS
Three Delegates Report State
Correctional Schools Are
"Viciously Inadequate"
Maryland Training And
Cheltenham Among 5 In-
vestigated By Group
Asserting that conditions in two of
five of Maryland's correctional insti-
tutions are "deplorable" and "viciously
inadequate," and that remedial meas-
ures should be taken in two others,
William Heinekamp, of the House of
Delegates (Fifth district), yesterday
released the report of a survey he and
three colleagues have made.
Associated with Mr. Heinekamp in
the survey, made for several months
on their own initiative, were Edward
A. Freburger (Sixth district), John
T. Booth (First district) and Charles
F. Argabright (Fifth district).
Criticized severely in a statement
issued by Mr. Heinekamp were the
Maryland Training School for Boys
and the Cheltenham School for Boys.
Remedial steps to correct certain con-
ditions were recommended for the
Rosewood Training School for Girls
Land the Maryland Training School for
Colored Girls. The Montrose School
for Girls was lauded.
Recalls Juvenile Court's Action
Mr. Heinekamp recalled that last
week H. Hamilton Hackney, chief
magistrate of the Juvenile Court, told
the Assembly Club, consisting of
members of the General Assembly,
that the court was compelled to send
southful offenders back on the streets
because there is no room in correc-
tional institutions for them
Reports on mental and tubercular
institutions which also were inspected
by the Delegates are now being com-
piled, Mr. Heinekamp said. The sur-
veys were made, he added, to acquaint
the legislators with conditions prevail-
ing in the institutions so they could
discuss intelligently their budgets
when they are submitted at the next
session of the General Assembly.
At the Maryland Training School
for Boys, the statement said, dormi-
tories are overcrowded, facilities for
recreation are limited, and food is so
poor it is not touched by many boys.
Yet, the statement said, the school
has the highest food appropriation of
any of the five schools. The boys, 11
was added, are living under very un-
satisfactory conditions.
Reports Fire Escapes Inadequate
The statement said conditions at
Cheltenham, where fire escapes are
inadequate, are similar. "Many boys
were barefoot on November 19." Boys
complained of being beaten with a
rubber hose. Kitchen facilities for
storage and preparation of food were
condeinned and "lots of things were
found in the soup. Vegetables were
full of sand, dirt and worms, and no
sugar was used at meals," the state-
ment added.
Dormitories without night super-
vision were reported at the Marylanıl
Training School for Colored Girls
Morale here appeared good At Rose-
wood, the statement explained, "an
infirmary constructed two years ago
is complete with all the necessary
hospital equipment ready for use, but
as there were no funds provided in the
1939 budget for personnel, this modern
hospital remains useless." Dormitories
at the school are overcrowded, the
report said.
The statement said the legislators,
visiting Montrose, "found general con-
ditions excellent" and they "would
like to see all Maryland institutions
brought up to this standard."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.