G LAST
After many months of negotiations between
Mr. Morris Rome, for the State of Maryland,
and Messrs. Enoch Harlan and W. Hanford
Magruder, for the House of Reformation
for Colored Boys, a deed to that insti-
tution in the name of the State has been filed
at Marlboro, Prince George's county, and the
institution emerges under full State control
as the, Cheltenham School for Boys. This
is the culmination of a long campaign to
secure State control over Cheltenham. Last
January the Legislature passed a bill author-
izing the State to take over the reformatory,
and negotiations have been in progress since
that time to work out the details of the trans-
fer. These have now been decided upon and
title to Cheltenham passes to the State, as
every competent authority on such matters
has advised for years.
The men representing both parties to the
transaction, including State Budget Director
W. H. Blakeman, who worked out many of
the financial details, deserve the gratitude of
the people of the State for their patience and
hard work in this excellent enterprise. Chel-
tenham, under the former management, was
harshly criticized and, even if there had been
no criticism of its administration, it is surely
fitting that the State should exercise direct
control over this institution. An unpleasant
chapter in Maryland history may now be
- considered closed and a new one, with the
State of Maryland exercising its full respon-
sibility, is now begun.
EQUESTRIAN PROBLEM
▼
A few days ago the jockeys of Great
Britain gave' a dinner to Steve Donoghue,
who at 53 is retiring from the saddle to be-
come a trainer. Steve, whom Lord Lonsdale
described as the only jockey in England who
has never been called before the stewards
for infractions of the rules of his trade, ex-
plained in the course of his remarks at the
dinner that one of the best horses he ever
rode was Brown Jack, who won the Queen
Alexandria Stakes at Ascot six years run-
ning. He added that the owner of Brown
Jack had rigged up a radio in the horse's stall
so that Brown Jack could hear Steve's broad-
cast tribute. "I can't see you, my beauty,"
concluded Steve, but "come on, Jack!"
All this gives an idea of how the English
feel about horses, but it also raises the point
of the manner of address to a horse by his
rider in the course of a race. With a horse
named Brown Jack there is no problem.
"Come on, Jack!" is the obvious formula.
But how could a jockey be expected to
shout, "Come on, Roentgenologist!" or
"Come on, Napper Tandy!" or "Come on,
Holluschickiet" or even "Come on, Eran de
Persel" The namers of thoroughbreds seem
as merciless on the riders as on the spectators,
whose pronunciations of the names of racers
have become almost another language. What
this country needs is more horses named Jack.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.