GROUP STUDIES
SCHOOL ISSUE
Security Unit For Juveniles
Named First Consideration
State Senator John B. Funk, of
Frederick county, said yesterday
that the subcommittee of the
Legislative Council appointed
Wednesday to investigate the need
for an additional institution in the
training-school system would study
primarily the requirements for
handling difficult white male juve
nile offenders..
The five-man subcommittee,
headed by Senator Funk, will re-
port back to the council at its
first meeting in November.
Present Facilities
Senator Funk said the committee
would seek to determine first the
need for facilities for boys "too
tough" for inclusion in the normal
training school routine, but too
young to be sent to the penitenti- the proposed structure not be built
ary.
at the training school. Cost of a
It has been reported that the new building for 100 white boys,
minimum security unit at the they estimated, would be $344,152,
Maryland Training School for Boys while construction at one of the
-intended for supervision of the existing institutions would cost
more difficult cases is over- about $314,000.
crowded, and facilities are lacking Incorporated in Mr. Kirkman's
to accommodate unmanagable of- proposal was a recommendation for
fenders.
inclusion of a security unit for Ne-
If need for new facilities is gro boys at the school to be built
established, Senator Funk said, the to replace Cheltenham, the present
committee will then have to decide Negro training school.
whether to recommend construc- He has told the Legislative Coun-
tion of an entirely new institution cil that the Board of Public Works
or of a special security division at had the necessary authority to ap
an existing institution.
He said he was against construc-
tion of a new and separate insti
tution and pointed out that such a
project would require legislation
to set up its management and
operation.
Necessary Authority Noted
Walter N. Kirkman. State budget
director, has said that a security
unit to house 100 serious offenders
could be constructed on the Mary-
land Training School property at
a cost of not more than $250,000.
Officials of the school, however,
have said they would prefer that
prove construction of security units
at the boys' training schools.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.