CRIMES LAID
TO BOYS FROM
CHELTENHAM
County Grand Jury Blames
'Alarm' On 'Escaped
Inmates'
Upper Marlboro, Md., Oct. 13
[Special] - "Depredations" com-
mitted by escaped inmates of Chel-
tenham School for Boys cause "con-
stant alarm" to residents of the
neighboring community, the Prince
Georges county grand jury today
charged in a report which de-
scribed the physical equipment of
the institution as "deplorable," its
morale as "bad," and its discipline
as "nonexistent."
In its report to the judges of the
Circuit Court, the grand jury said
that 707 inmates of the training
school for Negro boys had escaped
during the twelve months ending
September 30, or three times the
present population of the insti-
tution.
82 Unaccounted For
| Of that number, 82 still are not
accounted for, the report said, add-
ing that it has not been possible
"to obtain accurate information
with respect to the total number of
actual offenses committed by these.
escaped inmates while at large, al-
though a substantial number of
actual criminal offenses were defi-
nitely committed in Prince Georges
county.
"There appear to be no present
facilities or serious effort made to
prevent escape, and escaped in-
mates who are returned to the in-
stitution are not dealt with in any
way which would lend to discour-
age the practice."
The grand jurors reported to the
court that there is "no apparent
effort whatever made to keep Chel-
tenham's buildings and grounds in
even reasonably good or clean con-
dition," and said morale is bad
among both inmates and employés.
"No Discipline Whatever":
"There is no discipline whatever
and no apparent effort to keep the
inmates employed with the great
(Continued on Page 18, Column 3)
CHELTENHAM
BOYS BLAMED
be converted to this use would tions or provision of an outside
provide complete segregation of its stairway..
inmates from the "open" program
of the rest of the school..
Superintendent Quit
On the same date, Dr. Isaac an-
nounced the resignation of Royal
A. B. Crump as superintendent of
Grand Jury Lays Crimes To the institution. Dr. Isaac said Mr.
'Escaped Inmates'
Crump had been asked to stay, but
had insisted upon immediate ac-
tion upon his resignation, present-
ed last June. H. R. Harris is now
acting superintendent.
(Continued from Pag" 24)
amount of work to be done in con-
nection with the 'institution, its
Meanwhile, Governor O'Conor
buildings, and grounds," the group has announced that the 100-acre
said.
Ingleside estate in Catonsville will
"The inmates apparently roam be condemned as a site for the new
the countryside almost at will, com- Cheltenham School. A fund of $1,-
mitting depredations and causing 500,000 has been set aside for the
constant alarm to the residents of construction, which will include a
the community.
security unit for medium-aged boys
...
"The present situation appears to who are hard to discipline, but
be serious and to call obviously should not be committed to prison.
for prompt and effective action by
those charged with the responsi-
bility for the operation of the insti-
tution."
No Recommendations
2,000 Residents Protest
The Governor's announcement
that condemnation
proceedings
would be instituted was followed by
a protest from 2,000 residents of
The grand jurors added that the First district of Baltimore
since recommendations made by county, who signed a petition ask-
the April term grand jury, 1943 ing the Board of County Commis-
had not been acted upon, they had sioners of Baltimore County to use
confined their remarks to a report its advice and influence to halt the
of conditions as they found them, project.
without specific recommendations. Calling attention to what was de-
The Rev. F. Reid Isaac, president scribed as a "potentially dangerous
of the board of managers for condition" in the present means
Cheltenham, announced last Tues of access to detention cells in the
day that immediate action will be basement of the County Service
taken to provide a temporary Building at Hyattsville by means
security unit because of a recent of a long and steep concrete stair.
increase in the number of run-way, the grand jury recommended
aways. IHe said that the building to remedy cither by interior altera-
The group also recommended:
That prisoners held tempo-
rarily at Hyattsville be removed
as promptly as possible to the
county jail in Upper Marlboro.
That plans to separate juvenile
from adult prisoners at the coun-
oners ascertain beyond any rea
sonable doubt whether persons
taken into custody require medi-
cal attention immediately upon
their incarceration and see to it
that all persons who require such
attention receive it promptly.
It was explained that the last rec-
ommendation resulted from an in-
who died after being in custody.
ty jail be acted upon as soon as quiry into the deaths of two persons
possible.
That police in charge of pris-