King Tobacco again Seeks his Crown
SOUTHERN MARYLAND TOBACCO ROLLING INTO THE BALTIMORE WAREHOUSE
Its progress from field to market is illustrated in today's Photogravure Section
BUMPER CROP AND BUMPER PRICES
DAZE SOUTHERN MARYLAND
by
MARK S. WATSON
FOR all their beauty of natural scenery
and of ancient manor houses, for all the
allurement of their traditions of close to
three centuries, for all the glory of their old
families as highly satisfactory ancestors, the
Five Counties of Southern Maryland. have
been in a state of depression a good part of
the time since the Civil War.
Liberation of slaves had made tobacco
growing enormously difficult. Prices for such
tobacco as was grown and cured had been
miserably low. Fine old mansions could not
be kept up by impoverished purses and had
fallen to ruin. Sons and daughters had moved
away as rapidly as they could scamper out
from so gloomy a neighborhood. Land had
been left idle so that once trim fields were a
tangle of thorns and weeds. Now and then a
whole village had been depopulated, and its
gutted dwellings left to the field animals or
the buzzards or any other adventurer who
chose to dally in them.
But if anybody thinks that Southern Mary-
land is anybody's poor relation in 1931 let
him take a ride through the Five Counties
more particularly through the sections where
the tobacco plantations are in harvest. For
1931 is another year and Southern Maryland
is rubbing its eyes in amazement over what
looks to many of the growers like a return of
the "good old days" that had ceased to exist
save in memory and in the words of songs
which accompanied an old-fashion hoc-down.
NEW TOBACCO BARNS are being erected-the
first that many of the plantations have put
jup in decades. Old barns are being repaired,
their tottering legs braced, their roofs
patched, so that they may return to useful-
ness in housing the biggest and best tobacco
crop in the memory of most growers. Last
year's sparse crop (it takes roughly a year
and a half to grow and cure and market a
crop) is commanding prices which twenty
years ago would have sounded to anyone
from the Five Counties like a mid-summer
night's dream of 1850 when, one gathers,
everybody was prosperous and deservedly so.
Even a few bills are being paid-and that
is a dazzling sight for crossroads merchants
who carried their old neighbors through the
1930 drought. That disaster greatly reduced
the money crop and the little garden crops
as well and, coupled with the hard times gen-
erally, caused most business to be done on
a credit basis, and a very poor credit basis
at that.
Prosperity has not exactly rushed over the
countryside, to be sure, but there is a livelier
suggestion of it than has been seen in a long
time-and this in a section of Maryland
which had been immersed in economic gloom
for years, and in a season when almost every
other agricultural section of the country is
in complete despond. They may be burning
corn in Nebraska and feeding wheat to the
hogs in bleeding Kansas, but from the Severn
to the Potomac great heads of green tobacco
are being hustled to the drying racks and
on to the barns as rapidly as shrewd Mary-
land eyes determine the crop is ready for
cutting.
AND WHY NOT, when first quality Maryland
tobacco is selling as high as 55 cents a pound
in the leaf, with the average running around
30 cents a pound-for the average includes,
of course, the poor-quality stuff, which sells
as low as 6 cents a pound right now. But
if 30 cents should prove a fair average, bear
in mind that this is 5 cents better than the
average since the World War, and at least
twice as much as it was before the World
War got under way, with highly interesting
developments for the Maryland tobacco
grower.
For years after the Civil War, there was
only a beggars' market for prime tobacco
from this section. Judge W. Mitchell Digges
recalls that when he came home from college
to Charles county, prime tobacco sold from
his father's plantation for 6 cents. With
tobacco the only important crop in that sec-
tion it is easy to understand the dismay over
how they were "gwine to keep 'em down on
the farm." The wonder is that any of them
stayed.
The transformation in Southern Mary-
land which the World War initiated is worth
more than passing mention, for it involves a
quality of the Five Counties' tobacco which
makes it unique among the many varieties of
the weed which America produces. It is the
quality which makes prime Maryland leaf to-
day more valuable per pound than the larger
crops of Virginia and North Carolina or the
vast crop of Kentucky burley (Kentucky
produces a dozen times as large a poundage
as Maryland, indeed almost as much as all
the other States combined, but the price per
pound is not high). The fine wrapper brand
grown in Pennsylvania and Connecticut alone
sells higher than prime Maryland; this is
used solely for wrapping cigars.
DURING THE DAYS of Southern Maryland's
economic anguish there was no such price
leadership. From Port Tobacco creek to the
Severn the planters may have known they
grew fine pipe tobacco (they never had any
illusions about cigar possibilities), but they
could not convince the market buyers that
this was the case. The manufacturers wanted
big acreages, which meant tremendous big
concentrated crops, which meant that fac-
tories could be built up in such areas with a
minimum cost of transportation for the hogs-
heads. Maryland had only 30,000 to 35,000
acres of good tobacco land, and this was not
enough for them.
So the factories put, up their buildings in
Virginia and North Carolina and Kentucky.
All they needed to import was some quick-
burning tobacco to mix with their locally
available crops, which, unfortunately, did not
burn well enough to keep easily alight. This
addition, naturally, they got from Turkey and
Arabia, which long had supplied the English
manufacturers with the essential quick-firing
leaf for the English tobacco blends. As cig-
arettes became more and more popular, in-
creasing the demand for quick-burning leaf,
more and more was imported from the Near
East.
AND THEN upon a booming cigarette market
burst the World War. Consumption of ciga-
rettes rose still more but the manufacturers
were in a panic, for the war had cut off from
the market every tobacco plantation in Tur-
key and Arabia. Here was an unparalleled
demand for cigarettes, factories eager to roll
them, Virginia and Carolina components of
the cigarette mixture ready in normal volume,
but nothing to endow them with that quick-
burning quality which was essential! In des-
peration the manufacturers had their chemists
experiment with every other tobacco they
could find. They found Maryland tobacco,
and their test showed that it had the precise
quick-burning quality they were seeking. And
it was cheaper than Near East leaf had been
when it was available.
派
MARYLAND had been plodding sadly along for
years selling its output where it could. More
than half went to the French republic, which,
as in royal and imperial days, still holds a
tobacco monopoly, like its monopoly in
matches. The frugal French bought in the
cheapest market and that is why they came
to Maryland, taking occasionally some poor
stuff along with the good and making it all
into cigarettes which many a disconsolate
American has choked over despite the French
tobacconist's assurance that it is "pure
Mar-ee-lan." Of the remainder Germany had
taken some and Italy a little, but Belgium
(one of the largest per capita consumers in
the world) and Holland had taken most-
and the best grade; France never took the
very best. Since that day Germany has ceased
to buy here and Italy is doing its best with
tobacco which the determined Signor Mus-
solini is having grown on home soil, and even
France through her chief buyer in America
is complaining of late that Maryland is try-
ing to work off poor quality on her, and
threatening to stop buying here. So it is
fortunate that Maryland tobacco has been
discovered by America. The American cig-
arette makers now buy about two-thirds of
all Maryland raises.
业
IN 1916 Maryland tobacco prices jumped a
good third, and have continued to show a
mounting tendency, for even after the war the
factories kept on with Maryland instead of
returning to Turkey. Nineteen thirty-one is
unusually high for two reasons: first, the 1930
crop (and it is that crop which is being mar-
keted in 1931, of course) was very small ow-
ing to the drought, and there is a resultant
sharp demand for the small amount being of-
Fered; second, the poorer quality has not been
Coming into the market as liberally as usual
and so price averages have been high.
Generally speaking, the larger any crop the
ower the price, of course. But this does not
seem to be inevitable in the present case.
There are growers who confidently declare
that the unique tobacco of prime Southern
Maryland can be used in still greater quanti-
Lies to the advantage of the factories, and
that with this the case the American market
an absorb a much larger output from the
Five Counties without depressing the price.
Maybe.
How much more could be grown in these
counties is problematical, for there is noth-
ing about the air of Southern Maryland, de-
Hightful as it may be, which produces prime
tobacco. It is a peculiar quality of the soil,
and not all the soil at that, probably not more
than a fifth of the whole area. Plenty of
arable land there will produce excellent corn,
but it does not produce true Southern Mary-
land tobacco. Seed can be taken right out of
Charles county and planted in Frederick or
Montgomery county, where lately a good deal
of tobacco has been grown, but even the first
year's crop will not match Charles county
tobacco and the third or fourth year's crop
is very far from Southern Maryland standard.
HERE is another oddity of that magic select
soil. The seed is started in a clearing in a
wood of white oaks "huckleberry soil," they
call it and here it makes an ideal start, with
no grass to choke it. But if left there it will
not come to full fruition! It must be trans-
planted into another kind of soil which gener-
ations of experimentation have identified
pretty closely.
An old tobacco planter will tell you how
he selects his tobacco land. He does not
bother with chemical tests. He just looks for
the area where locust, chestnut or sassafras
has grown. There he sets out his plants, con-
fident that they will find themselves at home.
The very qualities of sandy loam which ap-
peal to those trees appeal to the tobacco
plant. Little else is needed in site selection,
save that there must be proper drainage, for
the plant does not like swampy soil.
THERE HAS LONG BEEN a theory that South-
ern Maryland planters burned out their soil
by constant setting-out to tobacco. This does
not seem to be borne out by study of the
record. Judge Digges, whose great acreage on
the uplands above Port Tobacco is a part of
the original 6,000-acre Mitchell plantation,
says that in the main the land is as good for
tobacco as it ever was, and retains its virtue
by a rotation of crops which early Mary-
landers used and which their descendants em-
ploy down to this day-one year of tobacco,
one of grain, one of grass or clover, then a
new cycle starting with tobacco. The same
effect is being achieved by experimenters'.
quick sowing of vetch as soon as the tobacco
is cleared from the fields, and a plowing in of
the vetch in time for the next spring's setting
out of tobacco plants.
When one sees magnificent stalks of to-
bacco standing close to six feet, in land which
has been so cultivated for nearly three cen-
turies, it is hard to find basis for the theory
of worn-out tobacco lands. There are plenty
of acres in Southern Maryland which cannot
be farmed, but they are not the 20 per cent.
which was and is given over to tobacco. The
good tobacco lands continue to turn out a
hogshead (750 pounds) or more to the acre
in normal years. This year they are doing
better. The normal crop is around 35,000
hogsheads for the Five Counties; this year it
should go well over 50,000.
Why shouldn't Southern Marylanders look
more cheerful than in many a year? Why
shouldn't there be a grin on the face of the
man driving his truckload of nine big hogs-
heads or perhaps his little mule team with
one hogshead into the tobacco warehouse in
Baltimore? He's looking for a better price
than he or his father or, perhaps, his un-
lucky grandfather ever got. Why shouldn't
the planter grin as he sends his cutters into
the field where a bigger poundage is waiting
for the knife than in many a year?
*
venture enough, as you can learn from any
unhappy wretch who can see his whole labor
of months completely undone in a few hours
of hail, or wind, or grasshopper assault, or
in a period too hot or too cold or too wet or
too dry. The advantage that the grain grower
or vegetable grower has is that he knows in
the course of a few months whether he is
wholly or only partly ruined. Not the tobacco
planter. He takes a year and a half to trans-
form his seed into dollars, and many a variety
of pest he encounters on the way. His only
ally is the tobacco plant itself, which has an
almost unbelievable sturdiness-proving itself
the "weed" which it has rightly been called.
THIS IS THE PEAK of the tobacco year, of
course, for the 1931 crop is being taken out of
the fields at the very time that the 1930 crор,
thoroughly cured and packed, is being rolled
out of the barns and heaved up on a truck
and sped for market. It is strange that in a
community which owes its whole origin to
tobacco culture, so little is known of the arts
and mysteries of tobacco planting. City peo-
ple are as unfamiliar with the stuff they
smoke as they are with the stuff they eat-
or drink,
AS STATED, the planter searches out a spot
in a white-oak wood where he can clear ade-
quate space for his nursery, and there, in
that favored soil, the surrounding trees will
afford protection. Not the same spot each
year, either, but always a different one, for
reasons known only to the creator of plants
and their mysteries. Here the land is broken
and smoothed, and here in late January or
early February the seed is sown, not in rows
but broadcast-yet not "broadcast" as Mil-
let's sturdy sower is pictured sowing his
grain. For the tobacco seed is the smallest
known to us, so infinitesimal as to make a
celery seed seem gross.
A single plant allowed to go to seed (which
the planter permits only a few choice ones
to do, that reproduction may be from his
finest plants) will bear a million seeds, which
ought to put it at the top of the vegetable
kingdom for fertility. But each seed is nat-
urally so tiny that only two tablespoonfuls
are needed for sowing to capacity a nursery
patch of 400 square yards! The only way this
can be broadcast practically, therefore, is to
thoroughly mix the two tablespoonfuls of seed
with a peck or two of firmly powdered fer-
tilizer, and then broadcast this diluted mix-
ture over the allotted space, tread or roll it
in lightly, and then let it alone.
In March it is necessary to cover the young
plants with a wide-meshed cotton cheesecloth,
close enough to keep out the tobacco fly,
which starts his maraudings then, wide enough
to avoid weighting down the delicate plants.
In May the space is thinned out so as to en-
courage the strongest plants. In June they
are transplated to the "locust-chestnut-sassa-
fras soil" in even rows, a yard apart, and
from then through July there is steady cul-
tivating to keep down the rival weeds until
the nicotine-bearing weeds can get their
beight. August is a month mainly of watch-
ful waiting, but at its end or in early Septem-
ber starts the harvesting of the crop. There
pest and his progeny, a long caterpillar, be-
ween them can eat as much tobacco as an
industrious office boy can smoke in a week.
HARVESTING is not a job for an amateur. The
expert watches the tobacco plants come to
flower, and at the right time goes through his
rows breaking off the flowers. Immediately
there breaks out from the top of the maimed
stalk a new growth of specially fine leaves
which grow with extraordinary speed if the
weather be precisely right. And three or four
days later is the time to cut the field. That
sounds easy.
But perhaps instead of ideal weather the
planter encounters drenching rains. If so,
he cannot cut his crop. Yet the plant can and
will grow with an exasperating genius for
doing the wrong thing, and over each leaf
will be put out a "sucker" which, to the city
man, looks like a good cluster of new leaves
but actually dries down to nothing at all and,
worse yet, saps the strength which would have
otherwise gone into the good leaves.
And, too, the rain will spatter mud over
the lower leaves which at best are "seconds,"
being inferior to the prime leaves which
sprout from the middle of the stalk, and it
will make them less valuable. When this un-
seasonable rain stops, a crop of splendid
promise may have deteriorated 20 per cent.
in a matter of ten infuriating days.
BUT EVEN RAINS will stop. And when they do,
the planter sends his men out on the run,
armed with a cutting knife as long as a
sickel and heavier, but only slightly hooked.
The stalk is cut close to the ground, and the
felled plants gathered expeditiously by the
next worker. Each plant he impales, near its
thick pulpy base-very much like a corn-
stalk-on a tobacco "stick" which only a
greenhorn would confuse with any other
stick.
For the proper tobacco "stick," precisely
four and a half feet long, has been rived from
a chestnut log, the tool used in this process
being a "fro," a long, heavy, crook-handled
chisel which is driven into the log at the right
point and twisted sharply, throwing out the
squared stick precisely along the grain. One
end of the "stick" then is sharpened, and over
this sharpened end, to aid in impaling the
tough stalks, the worker temporarily slips
a wrought-metal spearhead. When on the
"stick" are impaled at equal spaces four or
five or six heads of tobacco, depending on
their size, the metal spearhead is snatched
off, to be placed on the next "stick" and go
on doing its steady duty.
The stout chestnut sticks, thus rived, will
ground. Next the whole lot is collected-in
Southern Maryland it is usually collected on
mule-drawn cart and carried toward the
Irying barns. Where space and weather per-
nit, the "sticks" loaded with the tobacco
stalks are laid across racks in the sun for a
preliminary curing, but shortly, with or with-
out the helpful sun curing, they go into the
barns.
NOW YOU UNDERSTAND why the stick is pre-
cisely four and a half feet long, for the
whole barn has been divided into lofty
"rooms" precisely four feet wide reaching
from floor to roof, and cross-divided into
horizontal tiers (the true Southern Mary-
lander calls them "tires") by a stout skeleton
of beams and poles. When the barn is quite
empty of tobacco the interior looks as though
filled with a scaffolding all ready to be
completed with planking which would create
neat little cages four feet wide and five feet
high and perhaps six to eight feet long.
But no planking ever goes there. Instead
the tobacco-loaded "sticks" are swiftly and
accurately placed, horizontally, each end rest-
ing on the proper beam, the stalk's stump up,
the weight of the leaves holding them so that
they will droop downward and will dry as flat
as possible, Each compartment thus formed
normally has a few inches of space between
the tips of one set of leaves and the stalks
of the tier immediately beneath. This space
is needed, for the drying tobacco generates
great heat and there must be currents of air
or the too closely packed leaves will sweat
and rot.
The drying begins immediately, of course,
and progresses at varying speed, depending on
the weather, for Southern Maryland tobacco
has to be cured by weathering, aided as it
may be by the initial sun bath referred to.
This is one of its unique qualities. The tobac-
coes of Virginia or North Carolina (also
those of Frederick and Montgomery) can
be stripped from the stalk right in the field,
and cured artificially and with great speed.
When that is tried in St. Mary's or Calvert,
Charles or Prince George's or Anne Arundel,
the leaf crumbles away and is lost. It is
strange that soil can so radically alter the
whole constitution of a plant.
BY NOVEMBER or December the drying is com-
plete and, again watching the weather, which
must be just right, the thrifty planter sets to
work stripping the dry but flexible leaves
from the stalk, keeping them whole and grad-
ing them with practiced eye so that the four
commercial grades are placed in four sepa-
A TOBACCO BARN, BUILT IN 1778, NOW BEING REPAIRED TO HOLD THE 1931 CROP
It stands on Judge Mitchell Digges' plantation, its wooden-pinned timbers still sturdy, its hand-rived shingles still shedding rain
are no early or late varieties of tobacco, but
the whole crop can be spread over a period
of some weeks by a little ingenuity in the
original planting, scattering the seed on two
or three separate occasions so that one wave
will have a proportionate lead on the others.
All of this sounds fairly simple, and it is
provided one has been alert to the peril of a
later tobacco fly, a brawny brute with a body
two inches long and a wingspread which look:
to the planter as wide as an airplane's. Thi:
last for decades; a sawed stick will hardly
last a year. And that same stout old "fro,"
by the way, was used a century ago to rive
out the enduring chestnut shingles which still
shed rainwater from many a Southern Mary-
land roof. It was a useful tool which is
handled only by great deftness and no little
strength.
To return to the tobacco field; once the
"stick" is loaded with its four or six stalks
of tobacco, it is stacked with others on the
Most farm or garden crops go through ad
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
rate piles on the barn floor. The normal stalk
has twenty-five or thirty leaves. Three to five
which grow nearest the ground ripen first
and are gritty from the rains' spattering;
they are of good value, light in weight, and
very quick burning, but they are not prime,
and so they are known to the trade as "sec-
onds." There are three or four leaves at the
very top, the so-called "tips" which of the
whole marketable stalk are poorest in qual-
Continued on next page
ity.
Next down on the stalk are perhaps three
"dark" leaves which are only a little better
for market.
The first-quality leaves are the fifteen or
twenty which sprout just below the "dark"
leaves and above the "seconds." These are
almost uniform in size and texture, weight
and color, and even the unpracticed eye sees
beauty in their rich, bright, light-saddle color.
On a properly "made" crop they are not only
by far the most valuable but, by a strange
dispensation of nature, much the most plenti-
ful, too.
THE PLANTER does his stripping and grading,
it was mentioned, when the weather is "right"
as well as when the dried leaves are "in
order." He can not do it in very dry weather
or the leaves will crack and crumble; even
moderately damp but excessively cold days
will be hurtful. But moderately warm winter
days with the air sufficiently moist are what
he waits for. Happily, the work is such that
he can do much or little at a time as suits his
convenience. The leaves properly assorted,
they are piled in neat little "bundles" of fif-
teen, and a sixteenth leaf is twisted and tied
about the stubs to hold the "bundle" to-
gether. Then the bundles are piled in "bulks,"
still assorted in the four grades, and left there
for a little more seasoning. The "sticks" re-
tire from action, awaiting the next harvest.
Not until August, normally, are these neatly
arranged "bundles" touched again. It could be
done earlier, to be sure, but the plantation
hands are generally busy sowing and trans-
planting and tending the new crop througlı
spring and early summer, and not until Au-
gust is there leisure for the final packing.
Then the great hogsheads, also made on the
farm, are brought to the barn. A skilled man,
standing in the hogshead itself, takes the
bundles as they are handed him and lays
them in the bottom neatlý, stubs flush with
the staves, leaf-tips toward the center. Two
other men, also in the capacious hogshead,
tread the bundles down as they are piled.
When the cask is full and its contents trod
down it is tilted on its side and further pres-
sure applied with a winch which pushes an-
other hogshead top against it. Then the top
is nailed on, and at the planter's pleasure the
hogsheads, weight three-eighths of a ton each,.
are hustled off to the Baltimore warehouse.
Three men can pack and "prize" fifteen to
twenty hogsheads a day.
添
:
THE SELLING PROCESS itself is much like that
of grains, in that it is by sample. On the
warehouse floor the hogshead is up-ended and
by a derrick lifted free of its contents, which,
well packed, keep their shape perfectly,
standing on the floor like so many huge cakes.
The inspector, walking about this extraordi-
nary cake, with a little tugging pulls out three
bundles from different parts, from them
makes a selection of typical leaves, ties them
into a new bundle, stamps it and the hogs-
head from which the assortment is taken
with identifying tags, and turns the sample
over for examination by the commission men.
One of the latter is allowed to take it to his
place of business for exhibit to buyers.
Here of course is a perilous policy. It is
charged often enough that unscrupulous com-
mission men stealthily pull out of the sam-
ple bundle certain less-valuable leaves, so
that the residue looks like undiluted prime
quality, and sells the hogshead on the basis
MUSICIANS, BY ELYSE LORD
From Fine Prints of the Year 1930 (Minton, Balch & Co.)
of that deceptive sample, with better profits
to himself and the planter alike.
Two efforts have been made to cure it. One
in 1915 was through attempted legislation
compelling the State inspector to keep the
samples in his custody and compelling the
commission men to bring their clients right
to the guarded warehouse for their dickering.
This failed. Now there is an attempt to band
against commission men who are suspected of
the fraud and refuse them business, so that
the trade will clean itself up. The responsible
commission men naturally are aiding.
业
THE STATE obviously has an interest in the
reform, for.the good name of its output and
the good faith of its inspection service. But
it has a close financial interest as well, for
under the inspection law the State is respon-
sible for deception practiced under its pro-
tection; if within ninety days a hogshead is
proven inferior to the sample, claim can be
made against the State itself.
It is on this issue that M. Jarreville, the
French agent, has lately made complaint,
pointing out that not only have his clients
been deceived but, owing to leisurely ocean
freights, they have not discovered the decep-
tion until the ninety days is over and so have
been barred from the remedy at law. He has
threatened to stop buying Maryland tobacco
unless there is reform. If he carries out the
threat, obviously Maryland would suffer seri-
ously from the departure of a buyer who now
takes about a third of the crop, including
grades difficult to market in this country.
TOBACCO'S HISTORY in the early colonies is
pretty generally known. One of Columbus'
companions, sent to explore Cuba, brought
back word of the Carib Indians' addiction to
the weed, which they smoked in pipes-indeed
it was the name of the pipe, the tabaco, which
actually gave its name to the weed itself in
the Spaniard's lexicon. And a strange pipe it
was, with two stems, one for each nostril,
the Caribs taking smoke by the nasal route.
A half century later the Spanish introduced
the plant at home, and in 1558 Jean Nicot,
French Minister to Portugal, sent samples of
it and a description of its use to Queen Cath-
erine de Medici in Paris; from his name
comes the word nicotine, of course. It was in
1565 that Hawkins encountered the weed in
Virginia and still later that Sir Ralph Lane
sent a small shipment to Raleigh, who in-
troduced Queen Bess herself to this strange
American institution.
It was culture of this new commodity,
try where many a farmer could not grow
cotton and would not grow his own vegetables.
Hence, in 1624 (with more sense than the
nation showed 200 years later) Virginia
passed her "Two-Acre" act, requiring those
who planted tobacco also to plant two acres
of grain-and care for it so as to avert
famine.
Maryland did likewise, but was reluctant
to join Virginia in the effort to cut down
acreage so as to improve quality at the sacri-
fice of quantity. The reasoning seems to have
been that if the value per pound was raised
the officials and the parsons (who got their
pay in a fixed poundage) would get relatively
a raise in pay and that thought was intoler-
able! For years this strange obstinacy pre-
vailed, but at long last in 1747 Maryland fol-
lowed Virginia's lead, and tobacco planting
again became profitable.
Whether Maryland first got her tobacco
from the local Indians or imported tested Vir-
ginia seed is difficult to say definitely. We
know that it was tried out almost everywhere
in the Colonies, including the Eastern Shore,
which grew tobacco until the Civil War but,
with the depression which emancipation
brought to the plantations, quickly shifted to
more profitable enterprises. Latterly Talbot
has experimented anew with tobacco, pro-
ducing a very large leaf, but not planting any
extended acreage. An Eastern Shoreman
would be the last to admit it was because
Talbot county could not produce tobacco as
good as that raised across the Bay.
THE VISITOR is struck by the few changes in
methods as the centuries wear on. Little seems
needed, but the University of Maryland is
engaged in careful experimentation from year
to year with soils and fertilizers and diseases,
conducting some of its tests at Cheltenham,
where there is an assured labor supply and
adequate supervision of the physical work
needed for the delicate tests and records.
But in the main today's method is quite
unchanged from the old days save in two
respects. Machinery is now used to the ex-
tent of employing a transplanting machine
which saves a vast amount of time and effort
and gains better results.
The other is a fundamental difference
from slavery days. For without slave labor it
has not yet been found, practicable to farm
the huge tracts of several hundred acres. Now
half the tobacco is farmed by tenants, and
often Negro tenants, on one-acre and two-
acre tracts.
Some day, no doubt, industry will move
into the Five Counties and recreate great
suddenly become valuable throughout West-tracts, with regimented laborers who under
ern Europe, that hastened the colonizing of
America. Virginia soon concentrated on its
growth to the point where tobacco became
the chief medium of exchange and the whole
basis of salaries and wages alike; and also to
the point where, naturally, the reckless grew
nothing else, not even foodstuffs, very much
as lately proved the case in the cotton coun-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction
skilled direction will do the incessant weed-
ing and worm killing and nipping of suckers
and brown patch that alone give perfect re-
sults. Far more will be produced per acre,
no doubt, but it is an open question whether
much greater individual happiness will result.
And the Southern Marylander very nat-
urally asks "Is it wuth it?"
prohibited without permission.