Private
School
Meeting
Baltimore Association
Holding Annual Gath-
ering Thursday At Poly-
technic Institute
Dr. Fritz Redl, Austrian
Psychologist, To Talk
On "New Insights Into
Adolescence"
T
HE Baltimore Private School As-
sociation, composed of nineteen
private schools in and around Balti-
more, will hold its annual open meet-
ing Thursday at the Polytechnic In-
stitute on East North avenue. Co-
operating with the association in this
meeting are the public schools, the
various social and welfare agencies
of the city and the museums.
Believing that interesting and valua-
ble experimental and research work
has recently been done in the study
of adolescents, the group has asked
Dr. Fritz Redl, Austrian psychologist,
to be the guest speaker at the meet-
ing. Dr. Redl's topic will be "New In-
sights Into Adolescence."
Regional Conference
The Baltimore meeting is prelimi-
nary to the Middle States' Regional
Conference of the Progressive Educa-
tion Society, which is slated to be held
Friday and Saturday at the Hotel May-
flower, Washington, D. C. This confer-
ence will continue the discussion of
various phases of adolescence.
Following eleven years of teaching
in the Vienna public high schools, Dr.
Redl became head of the psychological
advisory clinics of the schools. While
in Vienna he lectured at the University
of Vienna on techniques of child guid-
ance work, and only recently was a
speaker at the two conferences of the
New Education Fellowship-the Dutch
Regional Conference and the World
Conference at Cheltenham, England.
Studying Adolescents
Of late he has been working with
Dr. Caroline Zachry on the committee
on the study of adolescents. Dr. Redl
has written extensively for scientific
publications, for encyclopedias and is
the author of two psychology books.
The Baltimore Private School Asso-
ciation, which was formed some years
ago to promote better understanding
among the schools and to encourage
meetings at which both parents and
educators could discuss those prob-
lems in which they were both inter-
ested, has brought to Baltimore at
various times a number of outstand-
ing figures in the educational world to
lead its discussions.
Donald Goodrich, of Calvert School,
is president of the association. Other
officers are: Louis Lamborn, McDonogh
School, vice-president: Miss Agnes
Elcock Greenwood, recording secre-
tary; Edwin Zavitz, Friends, corre-
sponding secretary, and Duncan
McCulloch, Oldfields, treasurer.
The committee in charge of Thurs-
day's meetings is composed of Mr.
Zavitz, Frederick A. Hahn, Boys' Latin,
and Miss Elizabeth Jane Thorington,
Bryn Mawr.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.