Another Superintendent
For Cheltenham
Cheltenham School for Boys, which has
been without a superintendent since last
February, now has that vacancy filled by the
appointment of Lawson Jerome Veney, for
merly parole superintendent of a reforma
tory school in Washington. A graduate of
Howard University, Mr. Veney was selected
for the Cheltenham post by the institution's
latest board of managers and comes highly
recommended. It would be difficult to name
an incoming public official more in need of
administrative ability, patience, luck and all
the public sympathy he can muster.
The Cheltenham School for Boys has been
branded a disgrace to Maryland by succes-
sive grand juries and official investigating
groups for the past twenty years. The most
recent grand jury report came last month
and included such findings as:
1. The institution has been allowed to
become run-down and dilapidated.
2. Many of the staff appear to be incom-
petent.
3. Dietary service is inadequate.
4. The infirmary was found to be unclean
and a large part of it used as living quar-
ters for the doctor, while a boy with scabies
was in a dormitory.
5. The kitchen was found to be filthy.
6. The sanitary facilities in use at the
pasteurizing plant were disgraceful.
Mr. Veney will not only have to contend
with the conditions outlined above. He will
have to set a course for an institution which
has a most uncertain future. One year he
may be told that the State intends to build
Cheltenham anew at a more favorable loca-
tion. The next year he may be told to plan on
spending hundreds of thousands of dollars
to rehabilitate the present site. He will have
to work with a dissatisfied staff and a board
of managers that, first of all, carries very
little weight in the State and, secondly, is
rent by internal politics.
If Mr. Veney can clean up Cheltenham and
make it operate more efficiently, he will in-
deed be a welcomed addition to Maryland
officialdom. But if his accomplishments fall
short of getting the staff and equipment nec-
essary to make Cheltenham an actual train-
ing school, rather than a lockup for bad
boys, the public should not be surprised. The
odds are all against him.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.