Southern Maryland Dilemma
With Best Market In Years,
Farmers Can't Get In Crops
By GEORGE C. DORSCH
Staff Correspondent of The Sun
La Plata, Md., May 7-With farmers, mostly of the gentleman
roseate prospects of the most abun- variety, who do not look upon the
dant and remunerative season they situation with pessimism; they are
have enjoyed in years, Southern in the minority. It is not only the
Maryland's farmers, both gentle small farmer, the worker of small
man and dirt, with few exceptions, acreage, who is singing the blues.
are raising the same chant which There are some who are considered
increases in volume as one pro- leaders in their communities.
ceeds from Anne Arundel county
Never Such A Chance
to St. Mary's, the State's birthplace.
One thing is certain: never be-
"We can't compete with the fore have the Southern Maryland
Government in wages," goes the farmers-the majority of them are
chorus as the farmers of this tobacco growers, and tobacco is the
banner tobacco country look over money crop and all else is sec-
their verdant fields and speculate ondary had such an opportunity
on how they will or can take advan- to cash in on a situation as they
tage of the opportunity before have now.
them.
Begging For Labor
And, to hear them tell the story,
never have they been so handi-
This land of early Maryland capped.
Cavaliers, land. that has known
"What are you going to do when
many vicissitudes, is begging for the Government says it must have
labor to plant and later to harvest increased production on the farms
crops badly wanted by the nation, and then takes away from you the
the farmers assert.
labor that will produce it?" ques-
Yet, they emphasize, the Federal tioned William A. Dyson, of White
Government, with its new project Plains, Charles county, who is one
at Cedar Point, its plants at Indian of the large producers in his dis-
Head and elsewhere, has drained trict.
the four lower of the ive counties Mr. Dyson now has only one
that comprise Southern Maryland helper, his 18-year-old son, who was
of labor that now is sorely needed, forced to suspend his college edu.
It is not a matter of wages, a mat- cation to return home and assist
ter of payment to farm hands, the his father. Other farm hands have
farmers say. They are willing to left for more lucrative work at Gov.
pay more than they ever paid be- ernment projects...
Fields Plowed Up
fore, but there is nobody to pay. In
fact, they charge that the Federal
Sitting on the front porch of his
Government, anxious to obtain immaculate large home, Mr. Dyson
labor for its own purposes every- looked over the newly plowed fields.
where, is "carting help away from Similar fields stretch far out to meet
us."
the horizon everywhere in South-
ern Maryland, fields plowed up for
Transportation Problem
And in Prince George's county, the tobacco planting, scheduled to
bordering Washington, produce begin about May 20 and to continue
farmers, who also grow tobacco, are for several weeks.
worrying how they will get to "For years I've been putting out
market-the near-by demanding about twenty acres of tobacco, or
Capital market-anything they may between 100,000 and 125,000 plants,"
plant. In this territory also labor is Mr. Dyson explained. "I've decided
at a premium. And the farmers to cut that by a third this year, al-
join the chant of those of Charles, though the tobacco market is bring.
Calvert and St. Mary's.
ing high prices. And I've 7,000
There are, to be sure, some (Continued on Page 6, Column 3)
Southern Maryland Dilemma
With Best Market In Years,
Farmers Can't Get In Crops
By GEORGE C. DORSCH
(Continued from Page 30)
pounds hanging up in the barn be corn-all corn. I do it alone and
cause I can't get it stripped.
when the cutting time comes-
"My help has gone to Indian well, I'll see what happens then.
Head, gone to other Federal works. "Maybe the boys from Chelten-
You can't get labor and if you could ham (reformatory for Negro boys)
you couldn't compete with the Gov will be loaned out again as they
ernment. I'm ready to pay what is were before at harvest time. There
asked if I can get the labor.
To Cut Acreage
is a lot of complaining about not
being able to get help.
"But you can't expect farm labor
to work for $1.50 a day when they
"I have thirty acres plowed, but
I'm going to plant only fifteen this
year. Here we are at a time when
our tobacco is replacing on the can earn better than that on Gov-
domestic market the tobacco that ernment work," and so Mr. Ripple
once came in from Turkey and brought the subject back to the
elsewhere. In fact, if we could get
theme of most of Southern Mary-
land farmers.
the help, we could plant twice as
much acreage. Here we are in such
a favorable position and we can't
take advantage of it.
Small Tobacco Planter
William G. Davis, of White
Plains, Charles county, is a tobacco
"We've got the market, a real planter of the small variety. He ex-
market, and we can't do anything pects to plant three and a half
with it. The suggestion has been acres. Last year he sold 3,000
made that I sell the place and put pounds of tobacco off his place at
the money in the bank. But I want an average of 45 cents a pound.
to lead an active life."
"The situation looks black," said
Then, in another part of the Mr. Davis. "If this keeps up we'll
country, James R. Hance, of Hunt- be closed up. And if they put a
ing Town, Calvert county, said: ceiling on the price of tobacco I
"Money is no object if we can get don't know what will happen to
the help; we can't. I'm over 60 and the growers, especially the smaller
my wife is no longer young. How ones.
are the two of us going to work "There is no labor available now
the place? We can't and the Gov. and we won't be able to hire
ernment has all the labor."
strippers. The Government's got all
available men in defense industry
Another View
There was another view, how. and we can't compete with the
ever, expressed by Thomas Wash. Government in wages; that is de-
ington Sweeney, of Naylor, Prince cidedly out."
George's county, who will have James P. Ryan is manager of the
thirty acres planted in tobacco. Waldorf Tobacco Warehouse. He
"People have howled about labor knows tobacco as a mother knows
before," said Mr. Sweeney. "They her child. So-called common to-
howl before they're hurt. We de. bacco now is bringing, and prob-
pend on local labor; we have none ably will continue to bring, much
of the migratory kind. It is my higher prices than formerly, he ex-
opinion that if the farmers pay de- plained, while the better grades of
cent wages they can get the neces. tobacco are not bringing what they
sary labor.
should. The next crop should bring
"The situation does not look so more than average prices, he said,
black as some would paint it. All but-
of my neighbors, nearly, are howl- "We're very short of labor," Mr.
ing. but I'm getting along all right. Ryan asserted. "Indian Head and
. "The Government has asked for other Government projects are at-
a ten per cent. increase in tobacco tracting our farm labor. Planting
crops. We should try to get it out. can be done by machine, but it will
be the eventual stripping-the
labor that will be needed for that,
which will be wanting.
I think we can get it out."
Owns 1,200 Acres
There is nothing of the farmer
"If Government wages at the
type about Mr. Sweeney. His is Federal projects could be met, there
more the appearance of a city busi- would be a return, I think, to the
nessman with his coat off ready to farmers. I feel that much of the
hustle through a hot day's work. help that has gone would return.
Moreover, Mr. Sweeney gives one
prosaic.
the impression of being very Government Pledges Aid
Then there is Judge Charles C. To Halt Crop Spoilage
Marbury, of Upper Marlboro,
whose white home atop a knoll Bridgeton N. J., May 7 (/P)-The
overlooks pleasant fields. He owns Federal Government pledged all
1,200 acres of land.
possible help today in an effort to
"I do not believe that the draft halt the spoilage of millions of
or other causes have depleted the dollars worth of war crops as a
country of labor," he said. "The result of a harvest-time farm labor
policy followed by local draft shortage in South Jersey.
boards, the entire administration Terming the situation "a Battan
of the draft, has been very fair as on the farm front," J. H. Wood,
far as farm labor is concerned. regional director of the Farm ১২-
curity Administration, said "some-
"Outlook Not Dismal"
"The outlook is not dismal. I one, presumably the Farm Place-
know of no loafers in this comment Bureau, may have to trans-
munity but drone's can be found port migratory workers from the
South and we may be able to
everywhere."
...
A. S. Ripple, a retiret broom finance that movement."
manufacturer from Baltimore, on Hundreds of acres of asparagus,
his 100-acre farm at Cheltenham needed by the army and navy, al-
was a case entirely different. Like readyhave gone to waste. Some
a prosperous businessman about to growers are canceling contracts to
motor down Charles street and grow tomatoes, a lease-lend com-
garbed for such a ride--he was modity.
plowing up his land.
"There is nobody here to help
me," Mr. Ripple sald. "Ever since
I saw one of these things (patting
the machine) I wanted to own and
operate one. It keeps the mind
clear and body healthy..
"Tobacco is the money crop, but
why bother about that. I put in