When Boys Begin To Steal As Individuals They
Eventually Organize Themselves Into Groups
A Review Of The Most
Recent Police Effort In
Breaking Up A Gang Of
Young Rowdies. With
Long Holdup Records
I
By ALFRED D. CHARLES
IT'S hard and dangerous business for
the police to rid the city of a a gang.
Hard, because a gang, even a young
one with a short history, is organized
with members who have had previous
criminal experience. Dangerous, be-
cause a gang usually goes about with
one or more members armed.
Recently the police department
wrote off many open cases of robbery
holdups, pocket-book snatchings and
auto thefts 'when the gates of the
Penitentiary closed behind seven
Negro youths who had been sentenced
to a grand total of forty-seven and
a half years.
Two of the youths' companions did
not make that trip to Forrest street.
They had been killed several weeks
earlier when a squad of detectives
had surprised several of the gang
and shot it out in the rear yard of
a public school at Laurens and Cal-
houn streets, in Northwest Baltimore.
Individual: History:
Clearing up this gang was even
Police Radio Car
one arrested with the automobile,
joined them.
Now the pieces of the group's history
fell into their proper grooves. The
whole, short, crime-ridden story was
told first by one, then another. The
boys had started out as individuals
by stealing small amounts, then they
had joined up, and, finally, as a group,
they had started using stolen auto-
mobiles for their robberies. For the
week after the sedan was stolen, the
youths said, they had snatched pocket-
books in Baltimore and then sped
down to Annapolis to hide and spend
their loot.
Thirteen Years
They were not long in going before
Judge Eugene O'Dunne in Criminal
Court. Seven cases of robbery and
one of larceny against Reginald Du-
vall-thirteen years in the Pen. Seven
cases of robbery and one of larceny
against James Hardy-twelve years in
the Pen.
Others followed: George Gittings.
ten years for five robbery cases; John
Garrett, six years for one robbery
and one larceny case; Joseph Harvey,
three and one-half years for two
robbery and one larceny case; James
Dorsey two years; Sam Jordan, one
year.
The detectives who had conducted
the raid were suspended from duty
and charged with causing the death
of two youths. They told
harder and more dangerous than usual hood, the job for the police becomes stolen, two Negro youths had appeared stories before Magistrate tochthe
Group Of Criminals
reform school of colored boys in
Southern Maryland. Outside other
Stanford in the Northwestern Police
Court and were absolved of all blame.
They went back to active service and
their task is to help the department
roundup the other members of the
But the police knew whom they were
one of finding a gang and thus solving at the entrance to Cheltenham, the
after, and knew what to expect. a whole series of crimes.
The individual history of the mem-
bers of the gang goes back, in some
That was the problem which faced youths waited in the car.
instances, as far as 1932. There are
Recognize Visitors
records at Police Headquarters con- the police early in September when
taining as many as a dozen items complaints of robberies in the north- But officials at the school recog- gang.
Complaints End
against some of the youths. Reform western district increased. It was fairly nized the two visitors, for these boys
school was known to some; others had well known that a group of criminals had been inmates at the school them- Not until then will the whole chap-
been sentenced to short terms; others was operating and that if one was selves, and some of their companions ter of the group be ended. But no
had been given suspended sentences. caught, the rest might be arrested. were inside the school now. The pic- longer are complaints of holdups and
As the number of pocket-book On September 13 a 1937 model sedan ture was not a hard one to understand, pocketbook snatchings coming in from
snatchings, drug store hold-ups, bak- was stolen and from this date, for a especially when there was a suspicion that neighborhood. No longer are sub-
ery hold-ups and automobile thefts full week, the number of robberies that the visitors carried arms. stantial Negro residents asking the
increased in one section of the western rose. So when the State Police re- Taking no chances, officials refused police to help rid their community of
part of the city this summer, the ported that the car had been recovered to let the visitors see their friends in youths who think nothing of shooting
police knew there was a gang in the in Annapolis on September 20 and side. The car drove off. Three days at each other and at victims of their
making.
that the youth in it had talked about later it was located in Annapolis. robberies.
To track down the thief who snatches holdups and robberies, Capt. John Back in Baltimore, the youth ar- This chapter, though, is just one of
pocketbook is not easy. Usually the Cooney, head of the Detective Bureau, rested in the car began a long recita- many. Now that one bad group has
victim cannot give the necessary de-lost no time.
tion of robberies, holdups, pocket- been locked up it doesn't mean the
scription. But when these robberies Meanwhile other bits of information book snatchings, many of which the police work is done. Bad groups, po-
continue to occur in the same manner were flowing in to the police. On the police knew about; of others there lice know, have the habit of springing
and in the same general neighbor-Sunday after the automobile had been had been no complaints. But as the up if they are given half a chance.
story was unfolded, the police real-
ized their suspicions of a gang were
right. Next step was to arrest its mem-
bers.
Taking the youth with them, de-
tectives cruised the neighborhood in
which the other members usually con-
gregated. There's one of them standing
on a street corner, whispered the cap-
tive. See that bulge in his pocket?
That's where he carries a pistol. But
don't pick him up now, wait until the
others meet him on the steps of the
school house.
Facts From Files
That was the information given the
police. From their own files they had
other facts concerning the youths who
were to keep a rendezvous on the
school steps.
Six detectives drew the assignment
to make the arrests. There were Lieut.
Allen D. Crone, Lieut. Robert Bradley,
Sergt. Donald Madigan, Patrolman
Albert Kendricks, and Patrolman
James M. Butler, the latter a Negro.
These men, in plainclothes, climbed
into two cars and parked them aeross
the street from the school just before
dusk. In one was the youth who had
been arrested in Annapolis.
There the other boys came, one by
one, meeting as they usually did on
the steps before planning their eve-
ning's activities. When there were six
the detectives decided it was time to
move in on them.
Closing in
Patrolman Butler, the Negro, was
named to approach the group. Maybe
if the youths saw him they would
surrender without trouble. Behind in
the car with the first youth sat Pa-
trolman Kendricks. Lieutenant Crone
walked around behind the school
building and approached the steps
from the right. Patrolman Butler
walked toward the group from the
left. Sergeant Madigan walked toward
the steps across the schoolyard which
extended some fifty yards behind the
building.
"Don't run," shouted Butler.
But the youths jumped up and fled
across the playground.
For the next few seconds, bullets
raked the area. There were flashes
from the direction in which the youths
ran and there were shots from the
detectives. When it was over two of
the youths lay on the ground. These
were Eugene Duvall, 18, who had ap-
peared several days previously at
Cheltenham, and Lawrence Harvey, 19,
a companion on that trip to Southern
Maryland; he carried a cheap nickel-
plated pistol. Reginald Duvall, brother
of Eugene, was caught by Patrolman
Butler. So was Sam Jordan, 18. The
other two had escaped.
Dangerous Job
The dangerous part of the job had
been done. The police had been tar-
gets and they had fired. Now there re-
mained the easier task of getting the
rest of the gang. James Dorsey, 16;
James Hardy, 17; John Garrett, 16;
George Gittings, each was apprehend-
ed in turn and taken to Police Head-
quarters and charges were placed
against them. Joseph Harvey, 23, the
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.