A Baltimore Philanthropist
ENOCH PRATT WAS FRUGAL IN
SMALL THINGS, LIBERAL IN LARGE*
by
MARK S. WATSON
JUST fifty years ago today the Enoch
Pratt Free Library, at that time the largest of
free libraries functioning by private gift, was
opened to the public. Appropriately Book
Borrower's Card No. 1 was issued to Enoch
Pratt, whose donation of $1,145,833 had
made it possible.
The semi-centennial anniversary is well
observed by the library with its publication of
a short life of the shrewd old Yankee phil-
anthropist, written by Richard II. Hart, of
the library's present staff, the handsome
typography designed by Norman T. A. Mun-
der, who is responsible for a great deal of fine
Baltimore printing, and the book itself issued
under the imprimatur of the library.
Too little is known of Enoch Pratt, whose
intluence on fellow-men was not limited by
his life's span. A very few years after he set
foot in South Charles street in 1831 he be-
came a man of importance and so continued
until his deata in 1896. Baltimore has ample
continuing evidence of his devotion to the
public good. So has the Massachusetts hamlet
where he was born. And so, whether they
know it or not, have a hundred cities and
villages where Enoch Pratt never set foot,
for in them Andrew Carnegie planted his own
free libraries by dozens and scores after
learning from Mr. Pratt, to whom bonnie
Andy pointed as his instructor, how a rich
man could spend his money.
IT IS STRANGE that of so useful and so pic-
turesque a person so little is known, for
niany a surviving raconteur must have known
Mr. Pratt. His biographer surmises that one
reason for his adopted city's curious lack of
acquaintance may well be in the continuing if
unexpressed hostility between the methodical,
industrious Yankee and the leisurely Mary-
landers who surrounded him. There were
many points of difference.
Enoch Pratt was born in Titicut parish,
which only a microscopic search of the maps
uncovers, not far from Plymouth Rock,
where seven generations earlier one Phineas
Pratt had trod as early as 1623. In the
family tree, no doubt, were a few clergymen
and other bookish people, for they were nu-
merous in every New England family, but for
the most part the Pratts were farmers wrest-
ing a living from a stubbornly resisting soil,
and supplementing that meager living with a
small revenue from boat building, or fishing,
or ironworking.
Enoch's father, Isaac, for example, bought
iron rods from Sweden and Russia and in his
little smithy drew them out and sheared them
and hammered them into nails for general
sale. To the respect that a little boy working
'ine bellows must have had for each separate
nail, Mr. Hart suggests one can trace the old
man's later addiction to pulling up his car-
riage horses, dismounting and picking up a
nail his keen eyes had observed in the thick
dust of Baltimore's streets. Such frugality
made his Maryland-born neighbors snicker.
Not many of them emulated him then or
later, either in picking up old nails or in
endowing new libraries.
HIS SCHOOLING ENDED at 15, the boy went to
nearby Boston, became clerk in a wholesale
hardware store, stayed there for seven years,
presumably building up credit and confi-
dence, for in 1831, when he was 22, he
moved to Baltimore and immediately opened
his own warehouse in South Charles street,
about where No. 23-25 now stands. It must
have been largely on credit from the Boston
houses through which he bought his nails
and horseshoes, but it was not long before he
had capital of his own.
Mr. Hart gives a quick but graphic picture
of the growing town of that year-the same
year in which an unrecognized poet named
Edgar A. Poc came to Baltimore. It was
second among the young republic's cities, its
clippers becoming famous. The Independent
Church, now the Unitarian Church, was
already standing at Charles and Franklin
(young Mr. Pratt promptly joined it) and
the McKim Free School was rising over in
East Baltimore. Stage coaches and Conestoga
wagons rumbled through the streets, their
owners not yet greatly worried over the new-
fangled railroads already under way. Half
the city jail's inmates were in prison not for
crime but for debt, and only a few years
earlier two highwaymen had been put to the
ordeal by blood, which we like to think of as
a long outgrown medieval enterprise in
ENOCH PRATT
FREE LIBRARY
THE NEW MODEL
penology. An industrious Quaker merchant
named Johns Hopkins was already winning
respect and profits.
BY 1847 the Yankee hardware merchant was
so much a part of the town that he was made
treasurer of the church society. While in
office he found the church worried by two
problems, the maintenance cost of its old
cemetery out at Belair road and Broadway,
and the interest charges on its outstanding
bonds. The astute Mr. Pratt offered genially
to relieve them of both worries at one blow.
He acquired the bonds and gave the whole
collection to the church in exchange for the
old cemetery. Then he had the cemetery
abandoned, moving the graves to a new loca-
tion and selling the old and now valuable
site, for real-estate development for a price
higher than he had paid for the bonds. In-
stead of two continuing losses, there was one
substantial profit. He was entitled to it, be-
cause for years he met the church's deficit,
he paid for the organ and for some of the
statuary, and he met part of the cost of the
parish house.
IHe must have accumulated his first mil-
lion by about 1855. Anyway, having worked
for twenty-five years without a vacation, he
decided to take one, and invited his wife on a
European tour. She did not like to travel and
declined, so Mr. Pratt went alone. Then he
came back and resumed work, and profit.
Like Johns Hopkins and another resolute
Baltimorean of that day, John Garrett, of the
Baltimore and Ohio, he was an ardent Union-
ist. He opposed slavery and was willing to
aid in the African recolonization movement.
Later he was proud to learn that Negroes
were using his library and, determined to help
the newly freed people, led in the upbuilding
of the Cheltenham reformatory for colored
children who presumably had not been
spending their free time in the library. He
gave his 750-acre farm as a site. Interest in
the work done there was demonstrated by
his employing on his own country place nu-
merous Negro gardeners who had been
trained at Cheltenham.
Mr. Hart gives a too brief summary of ear-
lier American library experiments, many of
which must have been studied by the shrewd
old merchant. In 1865 Mr. Pratt is discovered
giving financial aid to the Pratt Free School
at Titicut Parish and urging development of
its free circulating library, not only for
school children but for the community. This
gift to his boyhood home came twenty-six
years before Mr. Carnegie's gift of a library
to Dunfermline, and eighteen years before
the great gift to Baltimore.
业
IT WAS in the late seventies, Dr. Weld, of
the Unitarian Church, recalled, that Mr.
Pratt spoke to him about the city's prime
need. As he saw it, it was a library, and not
a library for scholars such as George Pea-
body had given, nor for the well-to-do, such
as the old Mercantile Library, but a library,
somewhat like that of his Workingmen's In-
stitute, for "all, rich and poor, without dis-
tinction of race or color, who, when properly
accredited, can take out the books if they
will handle them carefully and return them."
Having reached that decision, Mr. Pratt
set about the enterprise in his own way. He
acquired needed property in West Mulberry
street and began digging a large hole. There
was much speculation about what was going
there, but no answer to the mystery until it
suited the old man to make his own an-
nouncement. Then he informed the Mayor
that he had in mind building a central
library with five branches, and endowing it
with $833,333.33, if the city in exchange
would agree to appropriate $50,000 each year
for maintenance.
The city gladly accepted, and Mr. Pratt
thereupon went ahead. When the central
library was completed and turned over to
the public on January 5, 1886, it developed
he had spent $250,000 for site and building,
plus $50,000 for four branches already com-
pleted, and tucked in $12,500 for cash in
hand-a total of $1,145,833. Other branches
followed in time, but the next big impulse
came in 1906 when Mr. Carnegie gave $500,-
000 for twenty new branches, with the grace-
ful remark that this was intended simply to
extend the pioneering enterprise of his old
friend Mr. Pratt. Incidentally, the fund ran
out before the fifteenth new branch was up.
THIS NEW BIOGRAPHY introduces a number
of anecdotes, sometimes amusing, generally
illuminating, of this vigorous old man whose
rule the biographer identifies as "frugality in
small things, open-handedness in large." Не
hated waste. He favored women employes on
the thrifty reasoning that "women are
THE OLD MOD
steadier workers and more reliable; besides,
they require less wages than men in the
same position" but Mr. Hart quotes the old
gentleman's bitter comment that "when a
woman has an extra dollar it gets spent on
zewgaws."
ABOUT his new library (where at the outset
a brass rail separated male and female read-
ers) he prowled at all hours, so earnestly
hat a new and conscientious janitor once
went to a library assistant with a warning that
"that old gentleman needs watching." One
of his proudest visits was that of 1890, with
Mr. Carnegie as his much-interested com-
panion.
There are other stories, too, of his im-
mense aid to the Sheppard-Pratt Hospital;
of his service to the city as finance commis-
sioner, particularly his part in refinancing the
city stock on a lower interest basis, guaran-
teeing to take up himself all that was not
subscribed for; of his other lively interests
in the adopted home, plus a continuing in-
terest in his birthplace, and in the Unitarian
theological seminary he aided.
Further research may well produce addi-
tional information about this remarkable phil-
anthropist. Mr. Hart's volume is an encour-
aging contribution.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.