Bill To Have State Operate
Cheltenham Is Introduced
Administration Planned To Initiate Measure, Bu
Fourth District Republican Beats
It To Draw
[Annapolis Bureau of The Sun]
Annapolis, Jan. 22-Beating his ad-pica, Inc., recently made an inspection
ministration to the draw, a Republican of the Cheltenham school and made
member of the House of Delegates, public a report in which it condemned
Theodore B. Berman (Fourth district, practically every phase of manage-
Baltimore), tonight introduced legis-ment and all conditions at the insti-
lation which would place the Chelten- tution.
ham Reform School under State con- Delegate Berman's two bills on the
trol.
subject are the same ones introduced
The administration, it was reported in the House eight years ago by his
here, planned to initiate the move brother. One would transfer the insti-
itself. Senator Melvin E. Fine (Rep., tution from its present status of
Fourth district, Baltimore) was to in- State-aided to one of entire State
troduce legislation for that purpose in control. The other would change the
the Upper House, it was understood. name to Maryland Training School
Delegate Berman's move, Senator for Colored Boys.
Fine stated, wou.. have no effect, as
Creates Board Of Managers
far as he knew, on the administration The new legislation would set up
move. The school, known officially as a board of managers consisting of the
the House of Reformation at Chelten- Governor, the State Treasurer, the
ham and housing Negro boys, has been Comptroller of the Treasury for the
a thorn in the side of the Republican time being and nine others, of whom
Governor, it is understood, since he five would be Negroes.
made a tour of State institutions Cities and counties from which Ne-
shortly after he was elected.
gro boys were sent to the institution
would be required to pay $180 per
Nice Making Study
It was said that a study now is being year for committed inmates and $25
made of the institution by Governor per year for each boy placed under
Nice and his advisers, preparatory to parole supervision of the school. Any
putting legislation into shape for in- other expense would be paid by the
troduction. Among other things, it was State. This clause is similar to those
understood that financial arrangements in effect for other State institutions
for the new State venture were receiv- of a like character, and is in effect
ing exhaustive consideration.
for the Cheltenham School as it now
The Child Welfare League of Amer- is being run.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.