BILL TO OUST JONES
IS PASSED BY HOUSE
Measure To Replace Commis-
sioner With Board Is Scored
By G. O. P. As "Politics"
People's Court Proposal Sent
Along To Senate Despite
Noisy Opposition
By N. T. KENNEY
[Annapolis Bur of The Sun]
Annapolis, March 6-With the Re-
publican floor leaders crying "politics,"
the House tonight passed by a vote
of 90 to 22 and sent to the Senate a
bill to replace the present employment
commissioner, Harry C. Jones, Repub-
lican,'with a three-man board.
"This is nothing but politics played
by an overwhelming majority to steam-
roller a man out of office,", cried Dele-
gate J. Milton Bick (Rep., Allegany),
the G. O. P. whip.
In the same stormy session still an-
other attempt was made to delay the
legislation to reorganize the People's
Court of Baltimore. A House aroused
by oratory that shook the chamber
overwhelmingly trounced the oppo-
sition and sent the bill along to the
Senate.
Final Vote 103 To 12
The final vote was 103 to 12. Of the
dozen dissenters, three were Allegany
county Republicans, apparently voting
against the measure because of its ad-
ministration stamp.
The nine city members who joined
them probably rendered an accurate
showing of the strength in the House
of Mayor Jackson in Baltimore. They
were Steve M. Kopera and Chester G.
Kosakowski (First), Ben Weintraub
(Second), Mrs. Vesta M. Cary and J.
Joseph Gately (Third), William Heine-has been used against the bill since
kamp (Fifth), Henry T. Baines and it was introduced.
John J. Griffn (Sixth).
Sponsored By White
Delegates Gately and Weintraub
claimed the method of electing
judges-by having them run against
no party designation-was bad.
The employment commissioner
measure was sponsored originally by their records, with no opposition and
Delegate John S. White (Dem., Prince
George's), Democratic floor leader, but
it is not an administration bill. Its Mr. Heinekamp labeled this feature
every move through the House routine "un-American" and Mr. Kosakowski
has been attended by fireworks, and said it meant "the people of this
Mr. White. on every such occasion State must vote 'for' or 'against' like
frankly told his colleagues he had the Nazis."
introduced it to get a "tyrant" out of Fears. For "Home Rule"
office.
1
In addition, Mr. Weintraub said it
The opposition tonight was launched would do away with "home rule" in
not by Mr. Dick but by Delegate Baltimore, and that summons by reg-
Heinekamp, the member whom the istered mail would be unworkable.'
House, on several occasions, has gone "They will have to call the mail
to great lengths to squelch.
men to court to testify whether they
True to his reputation, Mr. Heine- delivered the summonses," he scoffed_
kamp tonight delivered the "kiss of Delegate Griffin came out point
death" to the bill's opposition, it was blank and asked how many men the
freely conceded in the corridors after-bill would throw out of work. The
ward.
measure has received practically all
its opposition because it would put the
People's Court constables and clerks
under the merit system and consider-
ably reduce their numbers.
"Cheltenham Case" Up
For the first time on the floor of the If this bill successfully, completes
House, Mr. Heinekamp brought up the balance of its legislative journey,
"Cheltenham Case." The Cheltenham it will go before the people at the
Reform School for Negro Boys is in election in November, 1940, because it
Prince George's, Mr. White's home contains a constitutional amendment.
county.
Mr. Jones, the Employment Commis-
sioner, attempted to dismiss some em-
ployes of Cheltenham, but his attempt
was frustrated upon appeal to the
court. Mr. Heinekamp tonight had the
reading clerk read to the House an
opinion of the Attorney General on
this case.
Mr. White said he would fight any
move to have what he termed an
"injustice" incorporated in the House
records. He once again branded Mr.
Jones a "tyrant."
Railroading Charged
Mr. Heinekamp claimed that the
Ways and Means Committee, of which
Mr. White is chairman, had railroaded
the bill through the legislative mills
without affording opponents an oppor-
tunity to be heard against it.
At one point in his speech, Speaker
Thomas B. Conlon (Dem., Fifth) called
him down for using profanity-the
word "damn."
The bill now must pass the Senate
and receive the signature of the Gov-
ernor before it can become law. Should
it be enacted, Mr. Jones would be
forced out of office on June 1, with a
considerable part of the term for which
he was appointed by Governor Nice
left to run.
No Such Thing, He Says
During the People's Court debate,
Delegate Kosakowski in some im-
passioned oratory denied that there
was any such thing as a "Jackson
man" in the House.
"They all hollered 'yes, yes, the
Jackson men are trying to block this
bill," he shouted, "there's no such
thing in this House as a Jackson man.
"It's just that nobody realizes that
the public is being deceived by the
super-politicians. I may be new and
green down here, but I sat here a
month and a half and I have seen the
wool pulled over my eyes."
Move Denounced
He moved to have the bill made a
special order of business for 12.30
o'clock tomorrow afternoon, a move
Delegate Paul L. Cordish (Dem.,
Fourth) promptly labeled a move to
defeat the proposal.
The Kosakowski resolution then was
defeated.
The opponents brought up all over
again practically every argument that
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.