MCKELDIN EYES
CHELTENHAM
Urges Trained Worker Staff
Instead Of All-Negro Board
Rather than the all-Negro board
of managers Governor Lane has
promised to appoint to the Chel-
tenham School for Boys, the insti-
tution needs a staff of conscien-
tious workers skilled in rehabilita-
tion of boys, former Mayor Theo-
dore R. McKeldin said yesterday,
In a broadcast address, he re-
called that, when mayor, he,
Thomas J. S. Waxter, director of
the municipal Department of Wel-
fare, and other authorities made
an inspection of Cheltenham, a
correctional institution for Negro
boys, "and found conditions intol-
erable there."
He added a new plant at the
school might be of "considerable
help in providing the proper facili-
ties for training the boys."
"Farm For Beasts"
Mr. McKeldin said, "It looked
at one time as though the State was
well on the way to such improve-
ment, but when Governor Lane and
the Legislature found it necessary
or convenient to use most of the
State's postwar construction fund
for current revenue, that project
and a lot of others went out the
window.
We have treated it like an 'ex-
perimental farm for beasts instead
of a school for human beings from
which many could be returned to
useful positions in our society."
Mr. McKeldin said he did not
believe the Negro people of Balti-
more "will approve this drawing of
a color line in the management of
the institution.
The rehabilitation of unfor-
tunate boys who are sent to Chel-
tenham is as important to the white
people of the State as it is to the
Negro people, and the responsi-
bility rests on the whole commu-
nity.
"Helpful To Whom?"
"The report on which the five
white members and four Negro
members of the board based its
mass-resignation reads as though
the purpose of the school is to re-
habilitate the staff of workers and
not the inmates.
"It declares there has been little
opportunity for confidences be-
tween white board members and
members of the staff, all of whom
are Negroes.
The report states 'on
the other hand, colored board mem-
bers may meet staff members at
church and social functions and mends the meetings of staff mem-tain trained leaders for the school, other institutions, then set aside the
establish pleasant relationships, bers and board members at church, then there should be no hesitancy rules.
that can be most helpful.'
it will be necessary also for the about going out of the State.
"If higher wages are a requisite
"Helpful to whom? To the boys Governor to appoint the new board "If it is necessary to set aside, to the obtaining of a good staff,
or for whom the school was estab- members according to religion- temporarily, certain rules of the then there should be no hesitancy about
lished, or to the staff members with Baptists to meet Baptist members Maryland Civil Service to obtain around long enough with this
petty complaints against their su- of the staff at church; Methodists such trained staff members from school."
periors or against fellow members to meet Methodist staff members-
of the staff? It sounds to me like an and so on.
invitation to the establishment of,
"If it is necassary to go out of the
"Maybe, since the report recom- State-and it probably is-to ob-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.