NICE INVITES
CHELTENHAM
BOARD TO QUIT
Calls For Resignation If
Jones' Reorganization
Plan Is Rejected
Gives Managers Alterna-
tive Of Presenting Satis-
factory Program
[By the Associated Press)
Annapolis, May 11-Governor Nice)
today requested the board of managers
of the Cheltenham School for Boys
either to adopt immediately the plan
for reorganization of the institution
submitted by Harry C. Jones, State
Employment Commissioner, present a
satisfactory alternative plan, or resign.
He made the request in a letter to
Joseph H. Blandford, president of the
board, and asked that a special board
meeting he called on receipt of the
letter.
"I have kept in close touch with the
negotiations between Col. Harry C.
Jones, State Employment Commis-
sioner, and the board of managers of
your institution." the Governor wrote.
Quotes Official Record
- "I approved the statute, authorizing
the State to accept the Cheltenham
property, on April 15, 1937; but. due to
delayed action on the part of your
board, your resolution, implementing
the act. was not passed until Septem-
ber 28, 1937.
"The record, furnished me by the
State Employment Commissioner,
showed that his department started on
the work necessary to induct the em-
ployes of the institution into the State
service on October 5, 1937, and that his
survey, analysis and the necessary fit-
ness tests were completed and for-
warded to you on March 4, 1938.
Cites "Grave Deficiencies"
"The record shows that, in addition
to inviting the attention of your board
to the grave deficiencies in your man-
agement and your employes, as shown
by his survey, the State Employment
Commissioner made constructive rec-
ommendations, not only for reorgani-
zation of the institution along the
lines of other State juvenile correc-
tional institutions, but for the neces-
sary redistribution of your budget
for 1938-1939 in the interest of reor-
ganization and higher efficiency.
"In making this survey and these
recommendations, the State Employ-
ment Commissioner acted under the
provisions of Section 6. Article 647.
Acts of 1920, which requires that the
State Employment Commissioner in-
vestigate the efficiency of all classified
employes, methods of administration,
etc., and make recommendations for
increased efficiency and economy.
"It appears that your board has
failed to remedy the conditions com-
plained of, and continues to delay and
obstruct reorganization of your insti-
tution in a manner which can no longer
be tolerated. Cheltenham is now a
State institution, and the conditions,
which have been a source of complaint
for years past, will not be permitted
to continue.
"I, therefore, request, immediately
upon receipt of this letter, that you call
a special meeting of the board of
managers for its consideration, and, at
that meeting, you either adopt the
State Employment Commissioner's en-
tire recommendations for reorganiza-
tion and redistribution of your budget.
or present a satisfactory alternative.
"If the members of your board are
unwilling to perform their duties as
managers of Cheltenham by taking
the action that is vitally necessary to
its reorganization, I request that all
the members of the Cheltenham board
forward to me their resignations forth-
with, and thus permit me to appoint,
as successors, citizens who will assume
this important public duty and carry
it to a prompt conclusion."
Blandford Reticent
On Nice Ultimatum
Brandywine, Md.. May 11 (AP)-Joseph
H. Blandford, president of the board
of managers of the Cheltenham School
for Boys, declined comment today on
an ultimatum from Governor Nice de-
manding board agreement to Chelten-
ham's reorganization or the managers'
resignations.
- Blandford said he would make no
statement until he had received the
letter. The Governor asked that a spe-
cial board meeting be called to act on
his ultimatum.
A meeting of the board of managers
institution was known before it was
of the House of Reformation, as the
transferred to the State in October,
will be held at Cheltenham tomorrow.
Blandford said.
Since members of the Reformation
board and the Cheltenham board are
the same, he explained, "it would be
possible" to summon a special Chelten-
ham meeting at the same time. Whether
such action would be taken would
depend on the board members, he
added.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.