RITCHIE SAYS
HE'LL RENAME
MANY TO POSTS
Will Send "Green Bag"To
Senate Thursday For
Confirmation
JANNEY SUCCESSOR
IS NOT DECIDED ON
Governor Has Not An-
nounced Who Will Be In-
surance Commissioner
[Annapolis Bureau of The Sun]
Annapolis, Feb. 17-With a few
minor exceptions, Governor Ritchie's
"green-bag" appointments will con-
tinue in office those now holding the
positions affected, the Governor said
todas.
The "green bag" will be sent to the
Senate Thursday for confirmation.
Thursday is the fiftieth day of the
present session of the Legislature, and,
according to the State, Constitution,
the appointments must be presented
to the upper house on or before that
day. The appointments confirmed will
become effective Mag 1.
Janney Successor Not Included
A proposed appointment for a suc-
cessor to Stuart S. Janney, director
and chairman of the State Board of
Welfare, will not be sent to the Sen-
ate, Governor Ritchie said. Mr. Jan-
ney submitted his resignation Decem-
ber 21. asking that it "take effect at
your' (the Governor's) convenience."
"The appointment of a successor to
Mr. Janney," the Governor said, "will
require considerable time and thought.
Because of the regular duties and time
I must give to the present session of
the Legislature, I have not had suf-
ficient leisure to consider properly the
selection of a new director and chair-
man.
"As Mr. Janney's term does not ex-
pire until May, 1931, and as he has
consented to hold office for a while, I
will not consider a successor to him
until after the present session of the
-Assembly ends."
Two Positions Contested
The only two proposed appointments
which must be contained in the green
bag and which have caused controversy
are those concerning the Commissioner
of Motor Vehicles and the chief judge-
ship of the Juvenile Court in Balti-
more.
In regard to these. however, Gov-
Fernor Ritchie already has announced
that he would submit the name ofi
E. Austin Baughman for reappoint-
ment as Commissioner of Motor Ve-
hicles and Thomas J. S. Waxter for
the chief judgeship.
If the appointment of the latter is
confirmed he will succeed Judge T.
J. C. Williams, who recently asked to
be relieved of his duties.
Benson Successor To Be Named
The most important additional ap-
pointment to be made by the Gov-
ernor is that of a successor to the late
Carville D. Benson, Insurance Com-
missioner. It does not, however, need
the confirmation of the Senate.
1
No indication has come from the
executive offices as to whom the Gov
ernor has in mind for this post, which
pass $6,000 a year. Emerson C. Har-
rington, former Governor, has been
mentioned, as has W. Mason Sheban,
of Easton, who formerly held the posi-
tion.
The Democratic leaders in Balti-
more county feel that the appoint-
ment should come from among their
number, inasmuch as Mr. Benson
was from that county. In this regard
the names of Harrison Rider, one of
the County Commissioners, and Rep-
resentative William P. Cole, Jr., are
being put forward. Mr. Cole's Congres-
sional term ends on March 4.
List Holds Much Interest
All county and city leaders are
vitally interested in the list of justices
of pence, election supervisors and cor-
oners that the Governor will deter-
mine on for the green bag. These posi-
tions constitute the backbone of politi-
cal machines in Baltimore.
The city leaders, due to the factional
fight in Baltimore, will watch particu-
Jarly the list of justices of the peace.
The Governor names 116 justices of the
peace for Baltimore. Some time before
May 1 he designates five of these to net
as judges of the People's Court and
ten to act as police magistrates. Pre-
sumably this will be done after the
Legislature adjourns.
However, the Governor must name
In his green bag the chief judge and two
associnte judges to sit in the Traffic
Court for the next two years. He also
names twenty-two auctioneers.
"Soldiers' Bonus" Bill To Be Up
In the legislative field, at least two
sharp fights for this week are being
anticipated. The first will occur in the
House when the "soldiers' bonus" bill
comes up on the third-reading calen
dar. The supporters of this bill last
week caused a surprise and general up-
set when they succeeded in having the
measure substituted for an unfavorable
report from the Ways and Means
Committee.
The administration leaders in the
House are determined to ring the death
knell of this bill before it advances any
further. At the same time those who
think the State should issue $0,000,-
000 worth of bonds to give a bonus to
veterans of the World War will make
a last-stand fight, hopeful of sending
the measure over to the Senate.
In the Senate an unfavorable report
on the bill calling for a constitutional
amendment which would prevent a
Governor from succeeding himself is
expected to draw prolonged debate on
(Continued on Page 5, Column 2)
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Ritchie Says He Will Rename
Most Of State Officeholders
To Send "Green Bag" To Senate Thursday-Suc-
cessor To Janney Not To Be Included-Insur
ance Commissioner To Be Appointed
(Continued from Page 20)
Ithat floor. The unfavorable report want the latter decrease would diminish
be made on Tuesday or Wednesday.
the State revenue by approximately
Sponsored By Cond
$200,000.
This bill was sponsored by Senator James J. Lindsay, Jr., chairman of
J. Allan Coad, of St. Mary's county, the House Ways and Means Commit-
who, while resenting the description tee, explained that he planned to make
"anti-Ritchie man," has not always an effort to have this hearing before
been in full accord with the actions of the financial committees of both
the present Chief Executive When he houses, his group Joining with the Sen-
introduced the bill the Senator said On Wednesday afternoon the oppo-
long continuance in office was respon-nents of the three bills which would
sible for such occurrences as the Stateļmake radical changes in the Work-
Roads Commission scandals.
ate Finance Committee.
men's Compensation act will be heard
Governor Ritchie's friends at once by the House Ways and Means Com-
drew the implication from this state-fmittee. The proponents had their day
ment that if Governor Ritchie had not before the committee last Tuesday.
been reelected the State roads irregu- Business Groups Oppose Bill
Representatives of numerous com-
larities would not have happened mercial organizations and business en-
They resented such an inference and terprises are expected to be on hand
made plans at once to make short work to oppose any increase in the amount
of the Coad bill. The Senator's friends, of compensation that must be paid and
however, insist that he is not anti-falso to oppose the proposed change
Ritchie and that the language in his making insurance in the State accident
statement was "anfortunate" if any fund compulsory.
one interpreted it as casting a reflec- Immediately after this hearing the
tion on Governor Ritchie.
committee will hear the proponents
Senator Harry O. Levin, Repub- and opponent of the hill which would
lican, Fourth district, Baltimore, an-festablish the Negro boys' reformatory
nounced today that he would op- school at Cheltenham as a State insti-
pose the Coad bill. He asserted that tution on the same basis as the Mary-
he would oppose the bill for the reason {land Training School for Boys at Loch
that it assumed that the people of the Raven.
State were incompetent to select whom On Friday the House Ways and
they wanted for Governor., Senator Means Committee will hold a hearing
Levin said that the measure restricted on the bill which would increase pen-
the people themselves, and that he sions paid to destitute mothers,
thought it was for the Constitutional
Convention, rather than the Legista-
ture, to determine whether such an
amendment should be adopted.
City Bills To Be Offered
Among the bills that will be intro-
duced will be the Broening adminis-
tration measures. Usually all city leg-
islation is put in in the first two weeks
of the session, but because of the con-
troversy over the chairmanship of the
city delegation in the House the
municipal authorities have been hold-
ing back, hoping for a settlement of
this fight. There has been no settle-
ment, although the fighting between
-the Curran-Kennedy-Rauft Democrats
and the Jackson-Bichy wing of the
party has almost subsided,
Among the committee hearings for
the week are several of more than or-
dinary interest. The most important of
these will take place before the Senate
Finance Committee Tuesday night on
the hill recodifying and revising the
tax laws of the State.
Would Cut Taxes On Concerns
This bill, if adopted, would reduce
■the taxes imposed on surets and bond-
ing companies and on trust companies.
The first reduction would mean an an-
nual loss of about $5,000 to the mu-
nicipal government in Baltimore and
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.