DIRECTORS OF THE SUN
ELECT NEW PRESIDENT
Paul Patterson Chosen
Head O
The A. S. Abell Company At
Meeting Yesterday.
The board of directors of the A. S
Abell Company, publishers of THE SC:
and THE EVENING SUS, yesterday electe
Paul Patterson as president of the com
pany. Mr. Patterson has been busines
manager and also secretary and treasure
of the company.
William F. Schmick, advertising man
ager, succeeds Mr. Patterson as busines
manager and secretary, and Joseph A
Blondell was elected treasurer and as
sistant secretary. J. H. Adams
Frank R. Kent continue as vice-presi
dents and editor and managing editor
respectively.
Mr. Patterson has been with THE SUr
since 1911. He came to this paper fron
Washington, first as news editor and
then as managing editor of THE EVEN
ING SUN. For the last six years he ha:
been the business manager of THE SUN
Mr. Patterson is a native of Illinois
and his first newspaper experience wa:
in Chicago.
OFFER NOT "BY" RED CROSS
Move To Buy Soldier's Painting
Was Made "Through" Society.
In THE Sex last Saturday the state
ment was made that Private Virgi
Pyle, a soldier-student in the art class
at Fort McHenry, had painted a remark
able picture, entitled "Back to the Bil
lets." portraying part of a column ol
American soldiers wending their way
back from the trenches to the rest sec
tion, and that Private Pyle had been
offered $5,000 for the picture by the
American Red Cross,
This statement was incorrect. et. inas-
much as the offer of $5.000 to Private
Pyle was made "through" the Red Cross
and not "by" the Red Cross. The offer
came from an individual and was trans-
anitted to Private Pyle by the Red Cross,
THE SUN regrets that the Red Cross
was inadvertently put in a false posi-
tion. The information was given THE
SUN by one of the officers at Fort Me-
Henry, who admins that he said the offer
was made "by" the Red Cross,
STILL HOPE FOR HOLABIRD
Representative Anthony Says Camp
May Get Appropriation.
Representative D. J. Anthony. Jr.,
of Kansas, chairman of the subcom-
mittee of the Ilouse Military Affairs
Committee, passing on camp site ap-
propriations, gave hope yesterday of re-
Consideration of the subcommittee's ac-
-ion in refusing to allow additional
noney for improvements at Camp Hola-
bird, according to a dispatch from THE
Sus's SUS Washington Bureau. Mr. An-
hony repented the assurance he gave
Sunday that final decision would not be
aken until the subcommittee had per-
Fonally inspected conditions at the local
camp. He added that although the
Committee had decided that the motor
ransport camps at Atlanta and San
Antonio were not protitable investments
Cor the Government, the committee was
villing to be convinced by the War De-
artment that one camp was necessary
To retain.
If the War Department is successful
a this effort and the committee's find-
ugs of conditions at Holabird are satis-
Factory, he conceded it as likely that the
subcommittee would lift the ban од
hat camp and recommend that the ap-
propriation be granted.
HELD AS SUNPAPER THIEF
Negro Boy Is Sent To House Of
Reformation.
For attempting to steal 40 copies of
EHE SUNDAY SUN last Sunday morning.
Raymond Stewart, colored, who lives at
18 North Parrish street and who will
e 15 years old in a few weeks, was
emanded yesterday to the Colored House
f Reformation 11 Cheltenham by
udge Williams in the Juvenile Court.
The boy had been released on probation
rom the institution, to which he said
e had been sent for fighting.
Stewart not only attempted to make
off with the papers but attacked with
knife and wounded George Dorsch,
he carrier to whom they belonged. The
undle of papers had been left for Dorsch
t Fulton avenue and Fayette street.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.