Historical Notes On May Day
Festival Celebrated Fort-
night Ago In Many
Lands, Is Traced Back
To Age-Old Ritual
Origin Of Celebration
Seen In Dances In
India And Egypt Mark-
ing Season Of Futility
By HARRY HALLER
THOUSANDS of green-swathed
Ilawns throughout the land are
the scene of spring festivity these days
as school children and college girls
gather to celebrate "May Day." About
the May poles, entwined with color-
ful ribands, youth dances and makes
merry in an age-old ritual of which
it is ignorant. The celebrations vary
with the age, environment and locale
of the participants, but all of them England on the restoration of Charles
go back to the nature worship of the II, and, in 1671, the famous May pole
original May Day.
on the Strand was reared with much
The festival is one of the oldest om ceremony and rejoicing. The pole was
record in the history of civilization,, of cedar and was raised by twelve
springing from the festivals of India seamen, commanded by the Duke of
and Egypt, "which in those countriess York, who was then Lord High Ad-
took place upon the sun entering miral of England. It was taken down
Taurus to celebrate Nature's renewed in 1717 and purchased by Sir Isaac
fertility." Its very nature suggests a Newton, who had it removed to Wan-
outgrowth from the natural joy andl
stead, in Essex, to use as a supporter
ecstasy of the masses welcoming spring
and its bounties after a long winter.. to the great telescope which had been
It occurred at a time of the year when presented to the Royal Society.
man, then closer to nature than now,
FELL OUT OF STYLE
harassed by the difficulties of the But the revived May Day games
winter, burst forth in exultation at the gradually fell out of style and now
approach of spring, the season of fer- they survive only in the rural com-
tility. Lillian Eichler has well expressed munities. In London the celebration
the feeling of the festival celebration was abandoned first to the milkmaids
in her "Customs of Mankind." "Marı and later to the chimney-sweeps. From
was once as free as the birds," Miss about the middle of the seventeenth
Eichler writes. "He jumped and danced century it was customary on May Day
and shouted as his instincts prompted.. for milkmaids to dress themselves in
He slept when the sun made him their most festive finery and call
drowsy and ate when he found his food.. on all their customers, from whom
He laughed at the dancing moonbeams.. they received some trifling gratuity.
He beat his breast in proud defiance Later the chimney-sweeps made it a
of the rain. He jumped from stone to practice to parade through the streets
stone, rocked wildly from the limb off on the same day, garbed in tawdry
a tree, gave animal vent to the instincts ribbands and green boughs. Thus the
and impulses that crowded through London name for May Day came to be
him. Then came civilization. Man stifledi "Sweeps Day" when "Jack-in-the-
his impulses and walked silent with Green" with "Dusty Bob" and "Black
the masses."
Sal," the latter usually being a man
dressed in woman's attire as a rem-
The phallic interpretation which most nant of the milkmaids' celebration,
historians give to the May festival of would go dancing and capering
ancient days is disputed by some who through the streets, the center of an
contend that the May pole is a sym. admiring rabble. The ritual still exists
bol of triumph. According to this in some parts of London.
theory, May Day was considered the In Cheltenham, the chimney sweeps
boundary line between summer and reputedly hold high revels on May
winter and was the occasion for a war Day. Black faced dancers with a fiddle
between the two seasons to determine and tin whistles gather about a large
bush or hollow cone decked with
which would prevail. It thus became
customary to stage a mock battle be- leaves, from which peers the face of
tween two individuals-one represent-
ing summer and the other winter. The
IN DISPUTE
"Jack-in-the-Green." The dresses of
the attendants are red, blue and yel-
low, and they dance about the bush
former always managed to win and under the direction of the leader, a
was immediately crowned King of the clown who wears a tall hat with a
May. In triumph he held aloft green flapping crown, a fantastic dress, and
branches decorated with May flowers "fancies himself" greatly. A man with
and sang an old folk song, the septi- a fool's cap and black figures repre-
ment of which seemed to have been senting a grid-iron fastened on his
"I have won, I bring you summer." white pinafore, and two boys, one
The branches and flowers came to be wearing a girl's hat adorned with
interpreted as the May Pole and be-flowers, complete the group. Dancing
came a vital part of later celebrations, and singing, they levy contributions
The "pole" was usually made of birch by extending iron ladles or spoons
and adorned with flowers and ribands and striking the bystanders who re-
and was set up on the village greens of fuse to respond.
France, Germany, Italy and England,
where attenuated survivals of the
CUSTOMS PERSIST
original rites still exist, on May Day These May Day customs, distorted
eve. The revels invited the criticism from their common source, persist in
of the Puritans of England, and Stubbes varying forms throughout the world.
in his "Anatomy of Abuses" amiably Rites of Moloch worship still survive
characterizes the May pole as a in several districts of the Scottish
"stinckyng idol" which the people Highlands, where, however, these su-
bring from the woods, "following it perstitions are constantly receding
with greate devotion." And when they before the invasion of the railway
have set it up they "leape and daunce and the tourist horde. But it was not
aboute it, as the heathen people did at very long ago since all the youths
the dedication of their idolles."
of a township or village met on the
FORBIDDEN IN ENGLAND nearest moor on May Day morning
Whatever the correct interpretation and went about their strange business.
of the significance of the May pole, the Cutting a round table or altar in the
objects were forbidden to be erected green sod, the entire company sta-
by the Roundhead Parliament in 1664. tioned themselves in the trench thus
"And because," the edict read, "the formed, kindled a fire and prepared a
prophanation of the Lord's Day hath feast of egg and milk custard and an
been heretofore greatly occasioned by oatmeal cake, which they baked on
May poles (a Heathenish Vanity gen- the embers. After the custard was
erally abused to superstition and eaten they divided the cake into as
wickedness) the Lords and Commons many portions as there were persons
do further Order and Ordain, that all in the party and blackened one of
and singular May poles, that are or the portions over with charcoal, All
shall be erected, shall be taken down the pieces were then thrown into a
and removed by the Constables, Bers- hat, and, blindfolded, each individual
holders, Tything men, petty Consta-drew out a picce. The one who drew
bles and Church Wardens of the par- the blackened piece was made to leap
ishes and places where the same be; three times through the flame of the
and that no May pole shall be here- bonfire.
The Irish still retain the Phœnician
custom of lighting fires at short dis-
after set up, erected or suffered to be
within the Kingdom of England or
Dominion of Wales." Officers were to tances on May Day and making the
be fined five shillings weekly until all
poles were removed, and to the Eng-
lish farmer the banishment of the May
pole came as a temporary boon, for
cattle pass between them. Humans also
indulged in the rite. Fathers, taking
their children in their arms, jump or
run through the fire, thus passing
their progeny through the flames as
Barnaby Rich remarks that the "coun- a substitute for the sacrifice of chil-
try swayne" entered so keenly into dren practiced by the Phœnicians.
the pleasure of it that he "will sweate According to the more primitive ritual,
more on Sundays dancing about a Moloch was represented by a statue
May pole then hee will doe all the
week after at his worke."
IN NEW ENGLAND
bent slightly forward and so placed
that the least weight would alter its
position. Into the arms of this idol the
In New England, as in Old, the Puri- priest gave the child to be sacrificed,
tan, attacked the May pole. In 1628 when, its balance being thus de-
Gov. William Bradford of Massachu-stroyed, it dropped the victim into
setts wrote: "They allso set up a May the fiery furnace that blazed below.
pole, drinking and dancing about it
WAYS OF HOMAGE
many days together, inviting the In-
dian women for their consorts, danc- Mankind has traveled a long road
ing and frisking together. Shortly from the human sacrifice period and
after came over that worthy gentle- has found many ways in which to pay
man, Mr. John Endicott, who brought homage to the Nature that turns fer-
over a patent under the broad seal, tile in the month of May and yields
for the government of Massachusetts, up its flowered treasures. But the
who visiting these parts caused that school children who dress themselves
May pole to be cut down, and rebuked as animals, flowers and birds and fro-
them for their profannes, and admon- lic in the open on some May day and
ished them to look there should be with garlands and twine ribbands
better walking." Endicott had marched about a May pole are celebrating the
a posse to Merrymount, where there same festival made morbid by the
was a May Day celebration in progress, heathens, who dropped their babies in
the young girls who adorn themselves fire.
hewed down the pole itself "in God's
name," and solemnly dubbed the place
Mount Dagon, "in memory of the Phil-
istine idol that fell before the ark of
the Lord."
But May poles were returned tol
Dancing around a May Pole
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.