Need For Alcoholics Clinic,
New Cheltenham Emphasized
Stricter enforcement of trafficior treatment of persons in inat
regulations with respect to busses, category, the jury also cited the
trackless trolleys and taxicabs, a fact that the City Hospitals are pur-
suitable clinic for alcoholics and suing a practice of accepting only
epileptics and a new Cheltenham cases referred by the Department
School for Boys were urged by the of Public Welfare and accident
retiring grand jury in committee cases.
reports submitted to Criminal The jury committee said it usual.
Court judges yesterday.
ly takes from one to two weeks to
In urging closer police scrutiny obtain a referral by the welfare
over busses, trackless trolleys and body. Acutely ill persons and suf-
taxicabs with regard to traffic ferers from malnutrition and alco-
violations, the jurors asserted that holism should not be forced to wait
"it is the invariable custom of these such a length of time before receiv-
public vehicles to load and dis-ing treatment, the jurors contended.
charge passengers in the middle of
the street or with the rear portion
of the trackless trolleys or busses
projecting out into the thorough. that some emergency location be
fare."
The jury urged the rerouting of
all fixed-wheel traffic in the down-
ton area, systematic one-way
Provision For Emergencies
"It might be recommended here
provided where reports can be
made after hours concerning cases
that require immediate attention,"
the report said..
streets, parking, bans on main "As it now stands, the office of
thoroughfares and the elimination the Department of Public Welfare
of traffic blocks by a system of
overpasses and underpasses.
City Jail Hospitalization
closes at 4 P.M. and reopens at 9
A.M. On week ends, the office
closes at 4 P.M. Friday and opens
at 9 A.M. Monday. During this
In a special report by a commit-closed interval, no provision has
tee headed by J. F. Creekman, the been made for the referral of
jury pointed out that an investiga-emergency cases.
tion disclosed that the City Jail "In 1935 the State Legislature
had been made a part of the hos passed a law prohibiting the magis-
pital system as a result of inade trates in Baltimore city from com-
quate facilities at the City Hos mitting a person to the Baltimore
pitals and a lack of supervision City Hospitals. Coincident with this
Jover individuals arrested for legislation the building taking care
alcoholism. vagrancy and other of such unfortunates was discon-
similar charges. -
tinued and no suitable replacement
The jury contended that efforts has ever been made.
should be made to avoid commit-
ment of persons for whom the jail
is obviously unsuited. The jurors
A Practice Not Followed
"It is inconceivable to think that
ors the situation would improve to the
said such persons should not be extent that such an important insti.
committed to jail_on technical or tution should be abolished. The
"trumped-up" charges in order to public was led to believe at this
get them off the streets..
"It should be emphasized here." time that the correct precedure to
the report said, that the finest jail
solicit aid for individuals of this
building obtainable, the most in- type would be to call the Depart-
telligent management by an emi- ment of Public Welfare which
would immediately send to the
nent staff of physicians and psychia- station house a physician for either
trists, cannot do any permanent
constructive work for alcoholics, medical or mental examination, and
epileptics, etc., during their short if the condition warranted such,
jail sentences.
Baltimore City Hospitals.
would give an admittance to the
Institution For Alcoholics
"It is obvious that this practice
"Chronic alcoholism, particular- has not been followed and perhaps
ly, should be recognized as a dis-is due in part to the fact that the
case, and a special institution in office of the Department of Wel.
Baltimore should be established, fare closes at 4 P.M."
along with statutes providing for The jurors asserted that the
indeterminate sentences."
"whole general appearance at Chel-
Pointing out that the claim is tenham is most depressing." They
made that there is not sufficient said the cottages were poorly super-
space available at City Hospitalsvised, generally dirty and ill kept.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.