Down
The Spillway
THE latest version I have heard of the
old, old variation on the old, old story
of the boy who wanted to see the ball
game and asked his boss
well,
anyway, the latest version I have heard
is that of a colleague who has just got-
ten passes for "Anthony Adverse" and
is now applying for two days off in order
to use them.
NOW THAT the celebration of Har-
vard's tercentenary has reached its
height it may not be amiss to reproduce
from Samuel Eliot Morison's history of
the university this brief refrain which
was popular in the eighteen-sixties:
In the good old colony times,
When we lived under the king,
Each Saturday night we used to get
tight,
A-pouring down gin-sling.
And Hollis used to roar,
And Stoughton used to sing,
When the rollicking rabble lay under
the table,
A-pouring down gin-sling.
Professor Morison adds that in his
opinion the year 1759 marks the "all-
time high of student potation." It was
in this year that the Board of Over-
seers repealed the law prohibiting
drinking of punch, decreeing that "it
shall be deemed no offense if the schol-
ars shall, in a sober manner, entertain
one another and strangers with punch
(which, as it is now usually made, is
no intoxicating liquor)."
HARVARD, of course, has not devoted
herself exclusively to the consumption
of alcohol, although her students, like
students from the earliest time, have
been inclined to mention this phase of
activity more frequently than any other.
I rather suspect there is less of this
kind of vain boasting now than there
used to be. Motor cars and other in-
fluences have made college life very
much like life in general and there is
less need for those satisfying examples
of exhibitionism, funny hats and drink-
ing songs.
FROM THE racing pages of the English
newspapers, I cull the headline "Heel
Trouble Epidemic," and pause to ob-
serve that "heel trouble" is by no means
confined to the turf.
WHEN ONE enlists in a cause, it
is a fine trait to be wholehearted in
espousal of it. But I should hesitate to
approve in a political campaign such
thoroughgoing loyalty as a Republican
woman speaker from New York urges
upon Baltimore women.
Her audience was told that, before
entering a taxicab, she always asked
whether the driver was a Democrat or
Republican. In patronizing a restaurant
she makes it her business to ascertain
the politics of the waiter. When she
buys shoes, it is only from a Republican
clerk. In other words, she becomes a
human interrogation point, upon the
political persuasion of all with whom
she comes in contact and refuses to traffic
with the enemy.
THAT MAY be a good rule for those
who like that sort of rule. But if every-
body followed it, there would be a
pretty how-to-do. One's soup might be-
come cold before proper understanding
was had with a non-intellectual waiter
as to his political alignment. A shoe
salesman might be hard to convince that
his liking for one or another candidate
had anything to do with the proper
fitting out of the customer. And as for
taxi drivers, being shrewd readers
of character, they would find no diffi-
culty in changing their political coats
to suit the fancy of the fare. Moreover,
how are converts to be made if one
eschews converse with opponents?
On the whole, it is not easy to see
how the scheme of things would be
improved if Democrats dealt only with
Democrats and Republicans only with
Republicans. Only by close contact
with the erring can brands be snatched
from the burning.
In a recent issue of the London Sun-
day Observer there is an interesting
article on the difficulties which the
English General Postoffice encounters
in its sorting of the mails from foreign
parts. Of course, the problems of ex-
traordinary handwriting and remark-
ably wrong addresses are common, I
suppose, to postoffices the world over.
But it is my guess that, if only because
of its vast and elaborate empire, the
English postoffice does have to untanglea
more of these puzzles than any other
and that as a consequence its employés
are, therefore, more adept in brilliant
deductions and solutions.
The writer in the Observer gives an
example. He was shown a letter ad-
dressed to some one at "Schlten-
hammggos." The American might make
a futile stab at supposing that the word
was the name of some Welsh town, But,
according to the English reporter, the
sorter of the mails knew at once what
it was. "Obviously," he said, "this is
a letter to Cheltenham, Glos." Imagine
that being "obvious" to anyone.
It is, I think, of particular interest to
note that the Observer's reporter was
also told: "At present, we are having
a very busy time, for nearly every mail
from the United States contains from
80 to 150 doubtful cases' "-i. e., cases
of handwriting so illegible or of place
names so absurdly spelled that even the
astonishing sixth sense of the expert
"sorter" is baffled or left in a state of
uncertainty. I wonder if the number
of letters received here from England
which prove equally perplexing to the
American mailmen is as large.
JOHN O'REN,
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.