those children. Thus one of the first
accomplishments of the new Division of
Institutions is to expose a weakness in
the State's institutional setup and to
focus public attention on it.
A Barrier To Improvement
In Juvenile Causes
The newly organized Division on Insti-
tutions of the State Department of Pub-
lic Welfare will bear watching. The first
statement issued in its behalf-the one
made Sunday by the chief of the di-
vision, Mr. Dwight H. Ferguson-did not
pull any punches; it said that all of the
buildings at Cheltenham, with the excep-
tion of the gymnasium, hospital, boiler
room and mule barn, should be replaced.
Cheltenham is only one of the four
State institutions to be supervised by
Mr. Ferguson's division. The others are
the Maryland Training School for Boys,
the Montrose School for Girls and the
Maryland Training School for Colored
Girls. Mr. Ferguson has not made a
study of these institutions as yet. But if
his initial blast is indicative of things
to come, those studies should prove
interesting.
There is one statement in Mr. Fergu-
son's report on Cheltenham that de-
serves special attention. It was to the
effect that progress is being made to-
ward the adoption of rules to bar the
admission of feeble-minded youngsters.
We understand that steps are also being
made to bar similar youngsters from the
other institutions and to open the doors
of the four schools only to "trainable"
boys and girls.
- This is all very well. But where will
the mentally deficient children be sent?
The answer here is not, theoretically, up
to the Department of Welfare, but is in
the lap of the Board of Mental Hygiene.
This agency has two institutions for chil-
dren-the Rosewood State Training
School (for whites) and the Crownsville
State Hospital (for Negroes). These in-
stitutions, however, have all the children
they can accommodate, and they have
waiting lists.
There are plans to expand the facili-
ties for the care of mentally deficient
children, but there are no funds to make
the plans come true. And even if funds
were available, the improvements could
not be made because of inability to ob-
tain the necessary materials. So the.
Board of Mental Hygiene is confronted
by the cold fact that, while it has the
obligation to provide for the mentally
deficient children which the Department
of Welfare properly seeks to eliminate
from the four State schools under its
supervision, it has no place to put
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.