Assembly Holds Brief Session, Then Adjourns Until Monday
COMMITTEE POST
FIGHTS SETTLED
Judiciary And Chesapeake
Bay Appointments Break
Session's Monotony
17 Bills Introduced Before
Assembly Adjourns Until
Next Week
[Annapolis Bureau of The Sun]
Annapolis, Jan. 13-Maryland's legis-
lators left for their homes tonight after
a dull routine session had been ad-
journed until Monday night.
The only breaks in the monotony
of today's gathering were settlement
of fights over the chairmanships of two
House of Delegates committees and
the introduction of seventeen bills,
the first to come into the 1937 session
in any numbers.
Speaker Emanuel Gorfine settled a
wrangle over the chairmanship of the
House Judiciary Committee by naming
Delegate William S. Wilson, Jr. (Dem.,
Third Baltimore) to take the place of
Delegate Joseph B. Griesacker (Dem.,
Fifth Baltimore).
Candidate For Speaker
The new chairman was the candi-
date of George N. Lewis, Third dis-
trict political leader, for Speaker of
the House, and political gossip had it
that Wilson was given the judiciary
post as a reward for withdrawal of his
aspirations for the chair of the House.
Sources close to Speaker Gorfine,
however, minimized the political as-
pects of the wrangle, and claimed
Griesacker's loss was a mandate from
a large number of House members who
have been dissatisfied with Griesack-
er's treatment of bills that have gone
to the Judiciary Committee in the past.
Delegate P. Elliott Burroughs (Dem., over of Cheltenham House of Refor-
Wicomico) was named chairman of mation for Negro boys, under the
the Chesapeake Bay and Tributaries terms of a bill sponsored by Senator
Committee over the objections of a J. David Baile (Carroll), minority
group of persons connected with the floor leader, and twelve other Sen-
sea-food industries who wished Dele- ators.
gate Glenwood Evans (Dem., Somer-
set) to have the position.
Sought Man In Industry
The sea-food interests claimed a
man who made his living out of their
industry should have the post. Bur-
roughs is a road contractor. Speaker
Gorfine, in awarding the position to
Burroughs, said he chose him for his
"impartiality."
The committee is important not only
because it deals with legislation af-
fecting the oyster, crab and fish
industries but because it is a "trading
committee" used by the county and
city members to reach a common
ground on various bills. Bitter dead-
locks always ensue when this "trad-
ing committee" is not carefully
chosen.
Of the bills introduced, only eight
were of importance to large numbers
of the State's citizens. Others were
measures that would deal only with
the affairs of local communities.
Seek Pay-Roll Tax Boost
Delegate Leon Abramson (Dem.,
Fourth Baltimore) introduced a bill
calling for an increase in the tax
paid by employers for the unemploy-
ment insurance fund. The measure,
proposing a one, two and three per
cent, rate instead of the Federal mini-
mum rate now in effect, is regarded
as the opening gun fired by persons
interested in liberalizing the bill
passed by the General Assembly at
the recent special session.
Delegate Allen C. K. Clarke (Rep.,
Anne Arundel) sent to the desk a
measure that would provide stiff
penalties for anyone convicted of
"tampering" with race horses. The bill
is understood to have the backing of
the State Racing Commission and was
introduced at this time because of the
recent wave of race-horse "sponging."
It was written broadly enough so
that doping, throwing of races and
other sharp practices would be pun-
ishable under its provisions. Not yet
-complete, it will be amended to do
away with loopholes before it has
progressed much farther on its legis-
lative journey.
For Quarterly License Fees
A bill to authorize the payment of
automobile license fees on a quarterly
basis was sponsored by Delegate Earl
Bennett (Dem., Dorchester). Delegate
Griesacker submitted a measure that
would relieve joint bank accounts of
husband and wife from subjection to
State direct inheritance taxes.
In the upper chamber Senator Ray-
mond E. Kennedy (Dem., Fifth Bal-
timore) sponsored a measure extend-
ing the term of General Gaither, Bal-
timore Police Commissioner, for two
years.
Has Oyster-Dredging. Bill
Senator Harry T. Phoebus (Rep.,
Somerset) was the author of a bill to
open the Potomac river to oyster
dredgers. The question is one of many
perennial ones that are plaguing
oystering interests. Conservation au-
thorities frown upon the idea.
The Somerset Senator said he fa-
vored conservation of oysters, but in-
sisted dredging, like cultivation of a
field, increased rather than decreased
the output of a given oyster bed.
The State would finish the taking
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.