A LAND OF PROMISE
FARMS FOR THOSE WHO. WORK
Southern Maryland Is After The
Right Sort Of People.
The Exact Situation As, To The Ne-
gro-Some Lights And Sidelights
On The Great Problem.
[From a Staff Correspondent.1
La Plata, Charles County, Md., April 25.
Down at the southern extremity of the
Western Shore of Maryland, where the
Chesapeake's noble waters sweep onward
to the sea, and where the broad Potomac
rolls in its southeasterly course to join
the Chesapeake there is an Eden of beauty
and sunshine, of flowering hilltops and
emerald fields and of fringes of woodlands
bursting into the freshest green of the
springtide.
And as these words are penned there
comes through the open windows the heavy
fragrance of lilacs. They have been in
full bloom for four weeks now. The fruit
trees have blossomed and the dog-
wood has broken out its banners of white
and gold. The birds are in a very riot of
music. Bless them they demand no guar-
antee fund. They are singing all the operas
of nature and now is heard the crystal.
pure note of Bob White to let you know
that he, too, is in the company and that he
promises to raise two families this season.
Down in this angle of the Potomac and
the Chesapeake lie the counties of Charles,
St. Mary's and Calvert. This is the land
of promise. This is the Southern Mary-
land that is about to be discovered as the
new Canaan. The 40 years are about up.
Everybody here wants to forget them.
The Climate Prodigal.
Here the climate is prodigal, the soil
rich and the land plenty, but the white
people are comparatively few. The old
white stock of Charles county is land-poor
in having so many acres, and money-poor in
not having enough division of intelligent
white labor to bring forth riches from the
earth's bosom.
The State Bureau of Immigration has
already sent a number of fariners to this
section. These have received a hearty wel.
come and are doing well. Some are grow-
ing rich.
There was told in the first article of
this series that the exact situation con-
cerning the negro would be shown.
The population of Charles county in 1900
was 17,662. In the year 1909 there were
1,801 white voters registered and 1,913
colored voters, being a colored majority
of 112.
To read of this difference in times of
political excitement would lead the aver-
age person to suppose that there must be
a constant warfare between the races.
Nothing is further from the truth. The
white people are uniformly kind to their
colored help and neighbors, and the ne-
groes are polite to all, whether they oc-
cupy the positions of servants to the
white gentry or are independent workmen
and farmers.
"We-Sort" A Peculiar Word.
There is no spot on earth where the two
races dwell together in greater harmony,
no spot where a white Democrat would
more promptly rush to the defense of his
black or "we-sort" friends. By the way,
"we-sort" is a word that belongs to this
locality. It is the people of mixed blood
and is a name that they have bestowed
upon themselves.
As the white people are true to the ne-
groes, so are colored people, with all their
frailties, loyal to their Caucasian employ
ers, landlords or friends. Each needs the
other. The black man depends upon the
counsel of the white and the opportuni-
ties given to him to live in plenty and se-
curity. The farmer needs the labor of the
colored help and wishes that double the
number lived in the county. Cases of long
and continuous service are common. The
little black boy who drove the writer five
miles from Bel Alton to La Plata proudly
boasted that he had worked three years
for Mr. Wills, and told that his late father
had been in the same service for 26 years
and was the best driver in the county.
But They Dominate Politically.
But all this does not alter the fact that
the white men of affairs, the owners of
thousands of acres, the proprietors of
banks and stores and hotels, the men who
own sawmills and all who pay taxes are
dominated politically by the negro major-
Ity when it comes to administering public
affairs and building up the county to
where she should be with her generous
natural resources. It so happens that the
intelligence and means are on one side
and the votes on the other.
It is an actual fact that the negroes of
La Plata and its vicinity did not know of
the vetoing of the Digges bills until eight
days after the Governor's act. One or
two residents, more as a joke than any
thing else, told them that the bills had
been signed and that they could never
again vote. That news spread among
them rapidly enough, but they dismissed
it as something they could not help, and,
in fact, they did not seem to take it
greatly to heart. That the real truth was
so long in finding its way about exhibits
the grade of intelligence that is common
among them.
And He Threw Shad Roe Away.
Last Tuesday Mr. Walter M. Page, man-
ager of the New. Wills Hotel, bought some
fine fat roe shad, fresh from Port To-
bacco Creek, for the dinner that day. Mr.
Harry Malcolm, formerly of Baltimore,
slapped the writer on the leg and said:
"Set your mouth for a shad roe break-
fast tomorrow morning, my boy."
A few minutes later Mr. Malcolm dashed
breathless into the hotel looking for Mr.
Page. Then he darted out again and ran
to the kitchen. Then he came out per-
spiring and growling.
"Never saw anything to beat it," he
said. "Here's a nigger who was fairly
raised on the banks of a creek that pro-
duces the best shad in the world, and he's
gone and done that!"
"Done what? Who is the villain?"
"Why. that big black fellow. Pearl, had
those fish to clean. He cleaned out en-
trails, roe and all, and there it is Iying
on the ash heap.".
There was no fish roe for breakfast next
morning, and every time Mr. Malcolm sees
Pearl now he says: "There goes that price-
less jewel, that black pearl."
Why Dr. Owens Lost A Vote.
The writer went to a stable yard with a
gentleman of La Plata whose horse, while
being unhitched, showed signs of a cold.
The black stable hand, very sympathetic,
said:
"I dunno what make he cough dat way."
"Wait until we get out of here," whis-
pered the owner. "I want to tell you a
story about that colored voter." Outside
he said: "That intelligent elector was go-
ing to support Dr. T. S. Owens for the
Legislature. Suddenly he announced that
the Doctor should by no means get his
vote. He was pressed for a reason. His
reply was:
"I know all 'bout him and what he do
in de Legislatur. He jes' want to go dere
and eff he git dere he gwine to put up de
price on all medicines. I hear all about it.
Den ef I need a little bit o' quinine to
stop a cold, stid o' payin' 10 cents like I
does now it'll cost me jist $1. Yo' think!
Doc's a nice man, a wery nice gentleman.
I got any dollahs to throw away? No, sah.
but he look out fo' hissef an' I gotter look
out fer myself. I don't blame him none.""
An Easy Way To Carry Goslings.
Here's another one. They're all true
stories from life, too. Mr. Adrian Posey
has a boy from Cheltenham School, bound
to him until he becomes 21 years old. Ar-
thur is a "we-sort." Mr. Posey had a pet
goose, which, with 13 handsome goslings,
went down to the creek to go swimming
and mosey around for tid-bits. Arthur
was sent down late in the afternoon to
fetch home the goose and her brood.
He returned after a time and said be
couldn't somehow get the flock together and
start them homeward as they had minds of
their own.
"Now, you go down there and get those
geese," ordered Mr. Posey, "and don't you
come back without them." Arthur did it
all right. He drove the mother goose home
and carried the goslings, but he took pre-
caution to kill every gosling in the batch.
He had them all. For some reason or other
Arthur jumped away from home that even-
ing and wasn't caught for several days
afterward, but the trouble is all patched
up now.
It is this high grade of intellect that the
men of affairs do not quite relish in the
responsibilities of state and in decisions on
momentous questions of county govern-
ment; but there all feeling ends, and you'll
have a better chance with a Charles county
freeholder if you'd maltreat his driving
horse or kick his hunting dog than if you'd
injure one of his faithful servitors.
They May Give Some Away.
But the Charles county man is going to
populate his county. His mind is made up
to that. He sees that he owns too much
land severally and individually. One of
them has 2,700 acres in one piece. These
farms are going to be cut up into smaller
ones, and the new people are going to come
into the social and industrial life of the
region if they have to give some farms
away to start the ball to rolling.
Said Mr. W. Mitchell Digges: "I think
I know of at least 100 men who will give
an average of 50 acres apiece, if necessary,
to attract a thrifty class of people here so
that we can develop our great resources.
"The main thing to do, howeler, is to
have a company with headquarters in Bal-
timore and with a capital of from $250,000
to $500,000 to buy up our riduculously
cheap lands, resurvey them and divide
them up into convenient farms of mod-
erate size for the new settlers. As it is
now, farms are of certain sizes, and if
halved or quartered sometimes they are
still of the same total acreage and do not
always admit of the best partition to suit
the needs of the newcomers.
For Less Than $3 An Acre.
"Our lands are going up some in price,
and those which are in particularly pic-
turesque locations, particularly those
which overlook the Potomac river, are
eagerly sought for homes. Yet all the
prices are low. I sold recently a 1,200-
acre tract for $3,400. That was actually
less than $3 an acre. In fact, some of our
laud has sold as low as $1 an acre, and
any quantity of desirable land can be
bought for $10 an acre.
"We can already see the signs of the
times in the movement of real estate. I
know of one attorney in Baltimore who
is backed by $100,000 to buy up cheap
lands here, especially at trustees' sales.
The movement for the establishment of
smaller farmsteads is also well under way,
since there are now many containing from
125 to 150 acres only. That this is the cor-
reet thing I have no doubt, for there are
many large landowners who are making
absolutely nothing on their places. It
cannot but be wise for them to sell por-
tions of their property and thus obtain
capital to work the remainder by the best
agricultural methods and by the most mod
ern of labor-saving machinery.
A Chance For Capital.
"When we consider the problem of the
world's food supply there is every incen-
tive to work this naturally rich county
to its utmost productiveness, and then will
money flow in to us, then will come more
and better transportation and every com-
fort and convenience, and our people will
be better off.
"Even now the chance for the invest-
ment of capital is gilt-edged. The pres
ent enhancement of values would pay a
very great interest, while the advance
over the prices of a few years ago would
show a tremendous gain. With a monered
interest in us in Baltimore the people there
would direct immigration this way, and
the newcomers would find nothing to dis
courage them, but everything to make them
happy and prosperous.
"Our lands are kind and fertile, and
they vary from a rich brown loam to the
stiff white oak soil. There are at least
50.000 acres of this land easily and cheaply
obtainable. Our lands are particularly
adapted to alfalfa and the grasses, and
this suggests great dairying operations
and cattle-raising right between the two
fine markets of Baltimore and Washington.
There are fine opportunities for grazing
sheep on the high hills. Only a week ago
one farmer sold two hogs at $65, and he
is selling lambs at $12 apiece and calves
at $15 each.
"Fruit thrives finely nearly everywhere
when attention is paid to it. I have in
mind an old orchard which had been pro-
ducing the verlest scrubs of apples. The
owner's brother had been appointed as-
sistant to the State Entomologist. This
brother went home, sprayed the trees
three times, and the results were magical,
for finer apples were never seen than
those trees have since borne.
"So, too, with wheat. Some have thought
that our lands were unfavorable since.
while a good stout straw was produced,
in some places the heads were not satis-
factory. Then it was found that the soil
needed liming, and when this was done the
best of wheat was produced.
Tobacco Giving Way A Bit.
"The old tobacco crop has been done
away with by some of our farmers for
what they consider better paying things.
With many owners the efforts used to be
expended on a few acres, while the rest
of their lands went to waste. Then it is
always 12 months before there is any
money return for the tobaced, owing to
the time required in the curing.
"But all that is past now, and the new
spirit of Charles county is coming into
its own, and prosperity will be the word
from now on."
S. C. A.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.