An English Village Remembers
GOSSIP OF TURPIN AND CHAUCER
HANDED DOWN FROM FATHER TO SON
WHAT
by
CECIL ROBERTS
WHAT little things put us on the trail
of discovery! I live in a tiny village of the
English Chilterns, those hills that command
a view of the Thames on one side and of the
Oxford plain on the other. I suppose it is
more correct to call my village a hamlet, it is
so small. It possesses two inns, but one of
these is on the highway to Oxford and does
not really belong to us. But we are grateful
to it, for the whole of my village hides away
behind it. It is optimistically called the Trav-
eler's Rest and stands at a point, after a
straight mile, where motorists are "all out"
to tackle the hill behind it, while those com-
ing down are equally "all out" to see what
they can touch or the level.
The travelers seldom rest; therefore, they
go past at anything from sixty to eighty miles
an hour. Nor can I assert that they miss much.
It is a large gabled house, flat-faced and
roofy. Its drabness is relieved by two things:
a well-painted sign and a well-kept garden in
front. The original Traveler's Rest, where
travelers by horse or carriage, in the old days
when ten miles an hour was good going in fair
weather, probably did rest-this is across the
road and is now a picturesque private house.
业
THE OTHER INN, the real inn of the village,
has both history and beauty. I discovered
one day, almost by accident, that it is linked
with romance, as we see it today. Mine host,
Mr. Harris, an old soldier, is adept with a
gun, a tankard of ale, a handful of darts, a
skittle ball, a row of kidney beans, a ferret
in a bag, a car that wants "looking at," or
anything else in which an all-round man with
unfailing good nature can excel.
My admirable Mr. Harris one day gave me
a start. I had been looking at the Golden Ball
and had come to the conclusion that it had
once been a coach station. It has a space in
front of the old taproom that suggested a
former inn yard into which the flying coach
had come for a change of horses or for addi-
tional horse power to tackle the old Oxford
road that winds up behind.
The inn itself has a delightful bay window
that juts out into the road where it curves
through the heart of the village. The Golden
Ball shines gaily in the sun with its red tiles
HOME
and yellow washed walls, and seen from the
surrounding hills its shape, color and position
in the floor of the valley are altogether a per-
fect example of the English scene.
I HAD KNOWN Mr. and Mrs. Harris for three
years before their bombshell was dropped on
me. As they kept an ever open door and heart,
I had turned to them a hundred times in do
mestic emergencies. When a sudden descent
of visitors for tea had used up all the bread,
it was to Mrs. Harris that my servant fled for
supplies. When a field rat attacked my larder,
again its was Mr. Harris, with a ferret, Sally,
and his dog, Ponto, who delivered us from
the raider. When I had a houseful and another
had to be "slept," it was Mrs. Harris who
took him in. A sudden shortage of matches or
candles, a breakdown in the newspaper de-
livery, a demand for stamps after. postoffice
hours-the Golden Ball never failed me.
This readiness to help was all the more
gracious because I was the inn's worst cus-
tomer. I am neither a drinker nor a smoker
by choice. I make the effort in sheer socia
bility, but I should never be aware of the
absence of either of these things. There is
always a smile in the Golden Ball at my ef-
forts to drink beer. Any friends gifted that
way I eagerly take along to make up for my
deficiency. I like to sit in the parlor and hear
the vanishing Oxfordshire, as opposed to the
expanding Oxford accent. You meet there
men still wise in the way of horses, followers
of the plow, builders of ricks, thatchers, men
who seemed doomed to be the last of a great
line extinguished by the machine.
But for some reason I had never regarded
Mr. Harris as a repository of local history.
Compared with some of the Methuselahs of
the village he is a mere boy and a newcomer.
The air of the sergeant, the old soldier with
Indian experience, the retired Oxfordshire
constable, redoubtable in the tug-of-war, still
hangs about him, for all his handiness with
a beer pump or a spade.
I MENTIONED my suspicions abut the coach
station. It was as if I had touched a spring.
All I had surmised was correct. He showed
me the place where the incoming mail coach
from Aylesbury to Henley turned in, also the
"Tantivy" from Birmingham; a red coach;
the "Magnet" from Cheltenham, a blue; the
"Alert" from Oxford, and the Gloucester and
Stroud Mails. "No wonder Tom King and
Dick Turpin hung about here," said Mr.
Harris.
He was building a hen coop at that mo-
ment and I was glad he did not see my face.
Astonishment quickly changed to incredulity.
Of course, this was the kind of local yarn one
might expect. Dick Turpin was a hero of
mine at 7. I can recall now the sore place
on my thumb made by a pair of scissors, and
the mess of gum on my fingers and clothes.
My father had returned one day with a large
colored cardboard sheet on which was painted
the wonderful pictorial history of Dick Tur-
pin's great ride to York. I worked feverishly
by night cutting out and pasting up on the
plan the toll gate, the astonished keeper, the
six-barred gate, the leaping horse and the
great Dick going over it, masked, with pistol
cocked. There was rebellion when I had to
go to bed without the tollhouse's roof on.
Waking early, I descended through a sleep-
ing house and in cold room returned to the
scissors and the gum pot. Oh! that ecstacy
of childhood, evoked by colored cardboard
and gallant, defiant Dick!
DICK TURPIN had ridden to York along the
Great North road. I could not believe that
brave Black Bess had cantered past my gar-
den, or that, booted and spurred, the high-
wayman had darkened the threshold of the
Golden Balt.
"Haven't you seen his hiding place?" asked
Mr. Harris, driving home a nail.
"No," I answered, and added, half in pro-
test: "But Turpin couldn't have been here-
he was on the Great North road!"
"Well, he was born in Essex and worked
all round London. He knew every inch of the
Chilterns. He'd places to 'dive' in when it got
hot for him. Come and have a look, sir."
I followed Mr. Harris, determined not to
be led away by the mere thirst for romance.
The old ostlers' taproom is now a private
living room, but in the old days it commu-
nicated with the parlor for the gentry. Be-
tween these two rooms there is a thick chim-
ney stack. As is usual with these old chim-
neys, there is a bend in it. This bend had
been completely hidden by boarding. To my
surprise Mr. Harris opened a cupboard door,
revealing a narrow staircase leading to a bed-
room above. There was also a space in the
bend for a man to stand and look down
THATCHING ROOF IN RURAL ENGLAND
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
through, a slit at all the occupants of the bar.
The ingenuity and secrecy of this place
was obviously to assist a hunted man. There
was a main staircase to the room above. It
was easy, while the officers of the law were
searching the house, for the occupants of the
upstairs room to slip out by the hidden stair-
case and observe from his secret of vantage
the movements in the bar below him. Fur-
ther inquiries elicited the fact that Turpin
and King had "worked" the Oxford and Wash-
ington roads. Mr. Harris's exciting news was
largely confirmed.
业
WITHIN a week I had a second shock. At that
time I was employing an old gardener. He was
so old he was counting up the eighties-that
he could not go up a ladder because of dizzi-
ness, kneel because of rheumatism or dig be-
cause of lumbago. He had been born in the
village, as had his forebears. He had spent
his pennies, he told me, in my drawing room,
when it was a sweetshop, and had seen my
tall poplars arrive on a hand barrow. One
day I asked him what he had done with the
grass from the lawn mover.
"I've put it on the Roman road," he said.
"The what?" I cried, jumping out of my
skin,
"The Roman road, sir."
"Where is the Roman road?"
"Why, this lane, sir. It was the Oxford road
when I was a boy, but we always called it
the Roman road."
"Who's we?"
"Oh, everybody. My dad and my grand-
dad always called it the Roman road. It was
the way them Romans walked to Dorchester,
They came over by the ford at Henley and
up Friday street and down the Mile, and
along 'ere and up the hill where this lane runs
into the new Oxford road again, I've 'eard my
granddad say 'is granddad said that Mr.
Chaucer, the King's poet, used to walk this
way. And King Charles, when he was skeered
out of Oxford, came down 'ere and went into
them woods to avoid Henley, where they were
waiting for him. And 'e 'ad a friend up at
Fawley Court, who was now against 'im, but
'e winked and let King Charles go by. Ev
course, I've only 'eard this, and none of us
was scholars."
I LET the old man go on, though my head was
reeling and a hundred questions came to my
lips. When he had finished and started clip-
ping again, I went straight into the house to
keep calm. There were certain headlines to.
this astonishing information. My lane was a
Roman road before it was the old Oxford
road. "Mr." Chaucer had walked along it.
King Charles had fled down it.
I have heard that local tradition is often
more trustworthy than the written word. My
gardener was 85. The recollections of his
grandfather could carry back an additional
seventy years, say. The grandfather's grand-
father, therefore, might well have been liv-
ing in the village on the day King Charles fled
through it. It should not be difficult to find
whether the King had come this way. That he
had been at Henley and Oxford, I knew. It
seemed probable. he might have journeyed
this way, by the hedge of my garden. But I
wanted to pursue the Chaucer trail, Charles
could wait.
I returned to the garden and found some-
thing to do by the hedge, where the old man
was clipping.
"I suppose," I said casually. "Mr. Chaucer
was on his way to Oxford when he went past
here?"
The old man stopped clipping.
"Not at all, sir. He was going to visit 'is
son at Ewelme."
"Ewelme?"
"It's about ten miles from here, sir; just
off the Oxford road, Mr. Chaucer's son's
buried there, where old Henry VIII 'ad 'is
'oneymoon-one of 'em. My granddad said
the poet was very fond of the country. He
wrote a lot about it, an' 'e was a bit bawdy,
too."
I HAD HEARD this criticism before, but I never
expected to hear it from a gardener. My curi-
osity was aroused. I had not seen Ewelme.
That afternoon I went there.
I have not yet recovered from the fact that
for three years I lived near to anything so
lovely and surprising without discovering it.
Surely it is one of the loveliest old churches
in England. It has a battlemented exterior, a
gargoyled tower and an alms chapel added
Continued on next page
tomb, was Alice Chaucer. And this Alice
Chaucer was the daughter of the Thomas
Chaucer, whose tomb lies near by. Duke
John gave to the church his mother's-the
duchess-tomb, the front cover and the
shields on the tomb of Thomas Chaucer, bis
grandfather. And this Thomas Chaucer, who
died in 1434, was the son of Mr. Chaucer
the poct.
THE FACTS, therefore, so far as the records
in this church go, are not incompatible with
my gardener's astonishing story. He had
heard it from his great-grandfather via his
Continued from preceding page
English Village
about 1437, An almshouse for thirteen old men
is reached through an archway of molded
brick, and the cloister of these almshouses
has uprights of black timber- with herring-
bone brick between them. All the bedrooms
have dormer windows, with a sitting room
below each. Near by there is a chapel, also
of Tudor brick, with square-headed, stone-
mullioned windows and rectangular drip-
stones. This noble group of buildings clings
to the hillside, with the village and its water-
cress bed below...
But it was concerning Mr. Chaucer that I
had come hither, so I hurried into the church.
I must not digress, though sorely tempted. I
could write pages about the roofs.
YET.it is the tombs that make this church so
rich in interest. That of the Duchess of Suf-
folk is a masterpiece. She has a ducal coronet
grandfather. That was getting well back into
history. It is almost safe to assume that these
ancestors were "illiterate," which meant that
they relied on hearsay. They had not read
about King Charles or Mr. Chaucer or the
Roman road. The legacy of oral tradition ac-
counts for their knowledge.
IN THE matter of King Charles, I was soon
able to confirm the legend by strict historical
fact. The King fled from Oxford on April
27, 1646. Disguised as a groom, he rode
toward Fawley to avoid the town, then in
the hands of the Parliamentarians. He turned
aside and went by a bridle path through Hen-
ley Park and spent the night at Hambledon
Manor. The friend who "winked," according
to my gardener, and let him go by, was Sir
Bulstrode Whitelock, then living at Fawley
Court. All that my gardener told me coin-
cided also with the facts concerning Bulstrode
Whitclock. He loomed very importantly in
the life of that strange woman, Christina of
Sweden, to whose court he was sent to Crom-
well. At the time of his arrival at court she
had already made plans to abdicate the
throne, at a considerable price, and settle in
Rome. There she became a Catholic, to the
rage and consternation of Protestant Sweden,
kept a salon, turned the head of a cardinal
and, in turn, flouted and courted the Pope.
业
BUT at the time of Whitelock's arrival, in
1653, no one except the Queen dreamed of
the Roman adventure. She took a liking to the
pompous Ambassador. Gradually he gained
her favor. Then one day she took him aside.
"I have great confidence in your honor and
judgment, and therefore, though you are a
stranger, I shall acquaint you with a busi-
ness of the greatest consequence to me in the
world." She then informed the astonished
Whitelock of her intention to abdicate.
on her head and the Garter on her left fore-Twenty years later, after various changes
arm. Over her head is a canopy carved from
a single block of alabaster. In the open space
below the tomb-the sexton supplies a cushion
and loves to make you go down on your
hands and knees there is a gruesome, emaci-
ated figure of the duchess in death.
Now this duchess, so lovely below her
of fortune, Whitelock was buried at Fawley,,
in the churchyard that lies on the plateau
some 400 feet above my cottage. In 1632 he
ad erected in the church a fine monument
to his father and mother, their effigies lying
under a canopy supported by black marble
figures. It is still in good preservation.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.