HALF WAY
By passing last week the bill providing for
State ownership and control of the Chelten-
ham reformatory for colored boys, the
Senate at Annapolis has done its part toward
- the liquidation of a particularly unfortunate
situation. The bill, which is the result of
agreement between the Cheltenham trustees,
including M. Hampton Magruder and Enoch
Harlan, and the Board of State Aid and
Charities, now awaits similar action by the
House of Delegates.
In view of the agreement among the lead-
ers upon the desirability of the purposes of
the measure, there is reason to expect that
prompt consideration will be given it by the
Delegates. The bill's sponsors stand ready to
satisfy the curiosity of members upon any
of its features, and it is clear that the opinion
of penologists, welfare leaders and others
who have given much thought to the plight
of delinquent and vagrant colored boys is
wholeheartedly behind this necessary meas-
ure. The principal risk would appear to be
that the bill might be lost in the confusion
of the last ten days of the session.
To avoid such an unfortunate conclusion
to a good job, it is to be hoped that more than
the minimum of delay can be avoided.
POOR
RELATION?
Dexter Fellows is not available at the
moment, but it ought not to be long before he
is heard from in respect to the news from
Italy that William F. Cody (Buffalo Bill to
millions) was really an Italian "full of Fas-
cist courage and daring." This will be a great
surprise to some millions of Americans.
Perhaps the Italian editor who made this
surprising revelation had been reading the
Dictionary of American Biography, which
makes this observation about Buffalo Bill:
"He dealt with facts in a large, free way, and
he had a tendency after he became famous
to make himself the central figure in the epi-
sodes which he recounted. Most of his state-
ments are inaccurate; many of them are
preposterous, and he sanctioned, on the part
of his publicity agents, a gross indulgence in
fiction." This is a somewhat solemn descrip-
tion of a man in the circus business, and the
qualities mentioned do suggest fascism in its
more innocent aspects. Mussolini being also
in the circus business, ane of his editors may
be forgiven for finding spiritual kinship.
The incitement to all this Italian research
into the life of Buffalo Bill appears to be a
suit brought by alleged Italian heirs to re-
cover a "large fortune" which Cody is sup-
pased to have left in the United States. If
Buffalo Bill left anything more than a hat
and a pistol, it will be news to a lot of people;
a fact which, when known in Italy, may
dampen at least a little of the desire for
consanguinity with the American plainsman.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.