The Varied Jobs Required To Run A Railroad
SOME people think of railroad workers as
brakemen and engineers, riveters and the husky
laborers who stand aside when the train edges
through a work squad. Others think of them as
porters and conductors, stewards and ticket
salesmen. Some people even include chefs, night
watchmen, hostesses and business executives in
the group, but not many would name magicians.
musicians, or geologists as connected with the
business of railroading.
125 Vocations Are Listed
On The B. & O's Pay Roll
All these trades and many more are repre-
sented among the 40,000 employes of the Balti-
more and Ohio Railroad. Among the company's
6,400 workers in Baltimore alone, you can find
a diversity of trades sufficient to put any small
community well on the way to being self-suf-
ficient-clockmakers, printers, wireless opera-
tors, chemists, designers, writers, bootblacks,
dietitians and public speakers. One hundred
and twenty-five different vocations are listed on
the company pay roll.
If the entire personnel voted on the most
unusual job in the organization, it is likely
that a healthy number of ballots would go to
Arthur D. Gans, who knew Thurston as a boy
and for years dreamed of following in his foot-
steps. He got as far as recognition on the variety.
stage and eventually the job of head magician
for the B. & Ο.
Meetings Were Going Flat-
In Need Of Showmanship
The job was born during an intensive safety
campaign throughout the railroad's territory.
Statistical speeches and otherwise tedious meet-
By HARRY HALLER
ings were going flat, needed showmanship. Gans
stepped on the platform, poured water on a
flower pot. Nothing happened. Then he tried
whisky. A plant zoomed up three feet in the air.
He dangled a pair of women's stockings before
the audience, placed them in a box and handed
it to a young lady. She opened it, and three white
rats jumped out. The attention of the audience
was his and the railroad's.
She Began As A Clerk
In Car-Service Department
"That's nothing," says Miss Margaret T.
Stevens, who during twenty-three years' service
with the Baltimore and Ohio has held enough
different jobs to staff an average office. "It took
Houdini to get me started on a career."
She began as a clerk in the car service
department, where "you reported for work at
8.30 and not 8.31 and sorted records without
even talking to your desk-mate until lunch hour
at 1. On the way up to work in the elevator one
morning a member of the Transportation De-
partment told her that there was a good job
open there. "Why don't you apply?" he asked.
"Applications must be in by 1."
"Small chance," Miss Stevens said. "Nothing
but a circus parade on Baltimore street could get
us an intermission before lunch. And this isn't
circus season."
But that position was more on her mind than
the records she was sorting, and at 11 o'clock
there was a tumult of horns (auto and musical)
in the street outside, and everyone rushed for
the windows. With one eye on the chief clerk.
Miss Stevens whisked about the room until she
found a piece of paper and pen. Nervously she
scratched out the application and just managed
to deposit it with a passing clerk from the
transportation department as her colleagues were
filing back to their desks.
"What was all the commotion?" she asked.
Even Without Houdini
She Would Have Succeeded
"Houdini," someone replied. "He was hang-
ing from The Sun Building, advertising a theater
program."
But one suspects that even without Houdini's
assistance, Miss Stevens would have landed in
the unusual brackets. Next day's promotion to
the transportation department soon led her to
the distinction of being the first woman to work
in the mine-rating bureau. During lunch hours
she helped the chief file clerk, and before the
World War had his job, with five assistants
working under her.
In spare moments, Miss Stevens organized the
first B. & O. toy shop to brighten Christmas for
furloughed employes' youngsters, acted as the
first hostess on any train and got six words out
of Calvin Coolidge, supervised the railroad's
exhibit at the Chicago World Fair, wrote the
scripts for the Fair of the Iron Horse pageant;
and for the "Story of Baltimore Town," the
pageant celebrating Baltimore's two hundredth
anniversary. In 1923 she was one of three
B. & O. women elected by the employes to go
to France for rehabilitation work.
10,000 Railroading Objects
Go Through Stenographer's Hands
Twenty-five years ago A. J. Bitter was hired
as a stenographer in the railroad's test depart-
ment at Mount Clare, but in his spare moments
he has amassed a general knowledge that would
soon exhaust the average stenographic worker.
Over 10,000 objects relative to railroading, from
brooms to girders, pass through Mr. Bitter's
hands on the way to the testers. The soap you
use in the train washroom, the stationery in the
lounge car, the nuts and bolts that hold a train
together, the waste used by the engineer to
wipe grease from his hands and the glass panes
through which you watch the passing country-
side must all come here first for testing.
Upstairs a large and elaborately equipped
chemical laboratory ($54,000 went into its
appointments) is presided over by Dr. Wilbur
M. Stedman, chief chemist for the railroad.
Here are tested drinking water, many varieties
of oil, ink, copper and everything used by the
line subject to chemical analysis.
During a thirty-year building period Dr. Sted-
man achieved national recognition for the labor-
atory. At one time he had a staff of dozens of
chemists working full time. Then the railroad's
employes numbered 75,000. Now Dr. Stedman
has only one assistant, and you detect nostalgia
for former busier days as he strolls about the
deserted tables and cabinets. "So much work
undone," he sighs.
Too Much Work To Do
With Time On His Hands
"So much work to do," gulps Samuel A. Wil-
son, Baltimore and Ohio horologist, as he looks
at myriad clocks cluttering the shelves, tables
and floor of his Mount Royal Station workshop.
Ranging in size from a watchman's timepiece to
great station clocks, they have come from Illi-
nois and Missouri and more nearby States for
repair. Twenty-five thousand company time-
pieces come under his supervision.
Bustling about one of the company's busiest
offices is William H. Hoffman, manager of the
telegraph room in the Charles and Baltimore
streets building. Twenty-four hours a day, wire-
less machines and telephones chatter in this
nerve center of the railroad as 6,400 messages
are handled daily. Messages vary from how
many tons of coal are being shipped from Pitts-
burgh to St. Louis at 11.45 P. M. to a sleeping-
car reservation on a Chicago-New York ex-
press. All day and night, this room keeps
officers and officials informed of transportation
developments throughout the system.
Originator of a telegraphic office for Enoch
Pratt and installed at the Cheltenham Reforma-
tory, and later in charge of telegraphic oper-
ations at Union Station during the Spanish-
American War, Mr. Hoffman's experience pre-
pared him for B. & O. responsibilities.
Functioned Without Interruption
During Baltimore Fire
During the Baltimore fire, company wires in
his charge continued functioning with no inter-
ruption. When flames began to sweep down near
the building emergency paraphernalia was imme-
diately connected at Camden Station and calls
for help went on. For a while the B. & O. wires
were the only contact with the outside world.
Previous experience also paved the way to
Dr. George P. Grimsley's job as B. &. O. geolo-
gist. A Hopkins doctor in geology, his record as
assistant State geologist of West Virginia inter-
ested the company when the employment of a
geologist was found necessary. A plea to the rail-
road from a mid-Western clay or cement com-
pany for suggestions as to an adequate Eastern
location brought about the necessity.
Miss Helen Foreman
Candidate For Gulliver Honors
As director of the women's division of the
Cooperative Traffic Program, Miss Helen Fore-
man is probably the most traveled of the
railroad's specialized employes. Responsible for
pepping up eighty-seven clubs of women em-
ployes and company wives, scattered throughout
the country, she averages 2,500 miles a week.
Her job is to talk the club members into talk-
ing their friends into using the railroad. "Some-
times I need more than a magician to win their
attention," Miss Foreman says. But, according
to the records, 2,400 railroad fares were sold
during two months through this program.