Head Of Cheltenham Board
To Treat Boys As Individuals
The Rev. Dr. F. Reid Isaac Regards School As Place To
Train Youth For Restoration To Society
- The new president of the board 65 miles each way-every week.
of managers of the Cheltenham Dr. Isaac stopped in Baltimore
School for Boys insists that his yesterday on the first of the weekly
election to that office is no up-
trips-his initial visit to Chelten
heaval-no casting out of an old
ham as president of the board. At
regime. There is not, he says, going the Carver Vocational School, he
to be anything revolutionary done conferred with another member of
to accomplish the desired improve-cipal of Carver, a Negro school.
the board-Joseph C. Briscoe, prin-
ments at the school for Negro boys He was lavish in his praise of
which was the subject of much dis-the board members. Mr. Briscoe, he
cussion in recent weeks.
pointed out, is chairman of the
But the Rev. Dr. F. Reid Isaac, board's education committee and
who has succeeded Joseph H. will be expected to look after that
Blandford at the head of the board, part of the work.
gives the impression that some
definite changes will be made-and
as quickly as possible.
Mr. Briscoe interrupted to say:
"Dr. Isaac is very modest. He is
looked upon by the board as an
The changes will lead away from educator of broad experience,
the "old view" of the school as a understanding and human sympa-
"custodial institution" for delin- thy."
quent boys and toward the treating
of each boy as an individual.
Views On Responsibility
"I
Surprised At Honor
was dumbfounded," Dr.
Isaac insisted, "when the board
Dr. Isaac refuses to consider him- showed an Achilles heel by wanting
self. an educator; although he is me for president. I was busy with
superintendent of the Strawbridge
Home for Boys near Eldersburg.
He said he views his new re-
sponsibility only from the adminis-
trative angle and is more interested
in the social work that can be done
-the restoration of the boys to so-
ciety-than in the technical side of
their education.
my own work and I felt others were
more qualified. I honestly tried to
avoid the responsibility."
He said: "Mr. Hill was unable
to continue because of his health."
>
(He was referring to Howard C.
Hill, vice-president, who has pre-
sided since Mr. Blandford resigned
after the board had decided to abol-
ish all segregation of white snd
Negro employes.)
Following the resignations of a
number of employes and a critical
Dr. Isaac will observe the sixth
anniversary of his superintendency
at Strawbridge today. Strawbridge
is a home for dependent boys, op-
erated by the Methodist Church. survey of the situation by the April
Dr. Isaac went to the school from grand jury of Prince George's
a Methodist Church pastorate at county, the board dropped the anti-
Frostburg, Md.
segregation policy and substituted
the goal of making the school com-
pletely Negro-staffed.
Native Of Baltimore
Agrees With New Policy
He was born in Baltimore, forty.
eight years ago, son of the Rev. With this new policy, Dr. Isaac
Frank R. Isaac and the late Mrs.
Isaac. The elder Mr. Isaac, now re-
tired, is 84 years old.
is in complete agreement. In fact,
he said, "the board is unanimous
"But," he said, "it must be a
slow process."
Dr. Isaac was educated at Balti-on it."
more Polytechnic Institute and the
Johns Hopkins University before
taking the four-year Methodist Con
ference Course in Theology. He has
followed that up with summer work
at both Drew and Union Semi-
naries.
"Where," he asked, by way of
explaining the necessary slowness,
"are you going to get them? Where
are you going to get any em-
ployes?"
His first pastorate was at Wood- Among the recommendations of
lawn. From there he went to the the Prince George's grand jury was
Morgan Circuit in Carroll county. the dismissal of nineteen conscien-
His next assignment was to tious objectors employed at the
t: Columbia Avenue Methodist school. The grand jury had termed
Church in Baltimore; then to Haic- them a "radical group" that ap-
thorpe and later to Whatcote peared "to be primarily responsi-
Church in Baltimore before round- ble" for the "deplorable situation."
ing out his twenty-first year in the
ministry at Frostburg.
Through all his pastorates,
church leaders noticed a growing
interest in the welfare of youth and
the minister's success in helping
them meet their problems.
Named To Board By O'Conor
It was because of this that he
Comments On Objectors
Asked about conscientious ob-
jectors, Dr. Isaac said:
"I don't hold the conscientious
objector's point of view. But the
man who does has a right to it.
We're fighting for freedom of
thought as well as other things."
He was asked what part the ob-
was called to head Strawbridge in jectors actually had in the school's
1937. It was also because of this troubles.
that Governor O'Conor named him
"It would be unwise for me to
to the Cheltenham board in June, pass an opinion on that," he said,
1940. to succeed Dr. H. C. Byrd. "until I have a closer relationship
president of the University of with the school."
Maryland.
Mr. Briscoe had a more definite
In the three years since, he has view.
missed only two meetings-one be- ""The conscientious objectors," he
cause he was out of the State on a said, "are sincere and honest. They
vacation at the time; the other be- have a lot to give to the school.
cause his attendance was necessary They have approached the boys
at a meeting of the Strawbridge scientifically. With other instruc-
board on the same day.
tors hard to find, they have been
He intends to give equal or great-
er attention to his new duties as
president. The charter calls for a
weekly visit to Cheltenham by the
president.
useful."
More Interested In Future
Dr. Isaac was more interested in
the future.
"The whole board," he said, "will
work with the school's director of
in formulating the educational
To Live Up To It
"I intend to live up to it," he education and the superintendent
said, "if at all possible."
It will mean a trip of 130 miles-policy."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.