Negro Reform Institutes Fail
In Purpose, Report Suggests
Great Number Of Colored Youths Unable To Readjust
Themselves To Society After Release
A great number of Negro boys and want that so large a proportion dis-|
girls who leave Maryland's reform in-appeared without a trace and said it
stitutions fail to readjust themselves in was a fair presumption that a large
pociety, according to a follow-up study percentage of these had run afoul of
of 350 Baltimore cases made public the law in other States.
yesterday by the Department of Pub-
lic Welfare.
Less than twenty per cent. of the
boys and only about half the girls-on
whom reports were obtained-have
been able to keep out of trouble after
their release, the survey showed.
Thomas J. S. Waxter, Director of
Welfare, said that the study, made by
Morgan State College students under
the direction of Earl R. Moses, indi-
cated how little is accomplished in
reform institutions to fit inmates for
adult life.
Urges Foster Homes
re-
Mr. Waxter, an advocate of
habilitating juvenile delinquents
through placement in foster homes,
contends that commitment to a re-
form school should be resorted to
only when the subject unquestionably
requires the discipline of institutional
routine.
Of the 350 cases, 200 were boys com-
mitted to the Cheltenham School be-
tween 1930 and 1933, and 150 were
girls who were inmates of the Mary-
land Training School at Glen Burnie
between 1930 and 1935. They had been
sent to these institutions by the
Juvenile Court of Baltimore.
Of the boys on whom data was ob-
ained, 19, or 18.1 per cont., were
classified as "adjusted," and 86, or
31.9 per cent., as "not adjusted."
The study explained that by "ad-
justed" was meant that "there is no
record of further trouble with the
Juvenile Court, Police Department or
Criminal Court."
Half Called Adjusted
Of the girls, exactly half were clas-
sified by the study as "adjusted." That
is, forty-six out of a total of ninety-
two. The other forty-six had run into
further difficulties with the police and
the courts.
It was found that sixty of the boys
and fifty-eight of the girls had been
returned to some juvenile reform in-
stitution after their release from their
original commitment.
Eighty-two of the boys and twenty-
three of the girls appeared before a
criminal court as adults. There were
sixty-seven male and fourteen female
convictions.
Repeatedly In Trouble
Representative case histories in-
cluded in the report showed a number
A majority of the boys, the survey of the boys repeatedly in trouble
showed, have disappeared entirely through stealing and assault. Some of
since their release from Cheltenham, the case histories showed progress
and could not be found either through toward adjustment, especially among
relatives or a search of police, court the girls.
and prison records.
The report was a chapter in a special
financed
While only 89 of the boys were study of the Negro delinquent in Bal-
located, relatives and public officials timore, which is being
were able to supply data on some through the Work Projects Adminis-
of the missing, making 105 in all to
be included in the statistics.
87 Are Located
tration. The Department of Public
Welfare is sponsoring the sludy, and
the Baltimore Criminal Justice Com-
Of the 150 girls, 87 were located. mission, the Baltimore Urban League
Data was obtained on a total of 92.
and Morgan State College are coop-
■ Mr. Waxter regarded it as signifi-erating in the work.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.