PARLAY SCARES
ENGLISH BOOKS
Odds On Golden Miller In
Grand National Drop As
Flamenco Wins
[By the Associated Press)
Liverpool, England, March 27-On
the eve of the ninety-seventh running
of the Grand National Steeplechase at
Aintree England's bookmakers faced a
crisis following the victory today of
Lord Rosebery's heavily played Fla-
menco in the Lincolnshire, first big
event of the flat-racing season.
If Dorothy Paget's Golden Miller
gets over the hurdles first in the Grand
National test Friday it is believed he
will bring bankruptcy to scores of the
country's oldest and richest commis-
sion houses. Flamenco and Golden Mil-
ler have been heavily backed by
doubles players, while the Lincoln-
shire winner also has been coupled
with John Hay Whitney's American-
owned Thomond II in many combina-
tions.
Odds Drop Tο 5 Το 2
One middle-sized commissioner ad-
mitted to the Associated Press that his
firm stood to drop around £50,000
($237,500) unless something happens
Friday to the sure-footed Miller, which
won the world's greatest jumping race
Last year. "But that's only chicken
feed to what will happen to some of
the bigger boys."
As the result of the critical situation
a special callover was held at the Vic-
toria Club in London tonight to give
the bookies an opportunity to ease
their liabilities. Golden Miller was
knocked down from 7 to 2 to the al-
most unheard-of price for a Grand
National candidate of 5 to 2. Thomond
II was shortened to 6 to 1, while the
French-bred Tapinoise remained third
choice at 9 to 1.
Race Crowds Swelling
The odds on George H. Bostwick's'
Castle Irwell, which the young Amer-
ican sportsman will ride himself, were
cut to 20 to 1, and Whitney's Royal
Ransom was reduced to 25 to 1.
That's the darker side of the situa-
tion. There's nothing but sunshine and
Toy in the hearts of thousands pouring
into this city from every part of the
world. The hotels already are choked
to capacity. The sidewalks are over-
lowing with those arriving in time to
witness the opening of the meeting to-
morrow. The weather kept peace with
their spirits, deluging the famous Ain-
tree course with hot sunshine.
While America's hopes of thwarting
the great Golden Miller encountered
a slight setback in the anticipated
scratching of J. B. Snow's Delaneige,
second last year, other American own-
ers were far from conceding anything.
Five American-owned jumpers re-
mained in the field of 27.
Whitney Confident
Whitney believes :: Thomond. II,
third in the 1934 renewal, will run the
legs off the favorite.
"In view of his fine fight against
Golden Miller in the Cheltenham Gold
Cup, in which he finished less than a
Rength behind, I think he has a great
chance to turn the tables," declared
the young American sportsman, who
has tried many times but never won
a Grand National: "Remember he will
have an eight-pound pull in weights
chis time."
"I consider we have an excellent
Outside chance," said Bostwick. "I'd
Just as soon ride him as any horse in
the race. He proved what he could do
over Aintree fences when he won the
Molyneux Chase in November."
May Be Horizontal Champ
Morgan Blair, owner and trainer of
Fouquet, was "just hopeful."
"He might do well if in right mood,
out fact remains he tumbled in three
ecnsecutive races. He promises to be-
come the horizontal champion."
If Thomond II fails, Whitney still has
Royal Ransom, rated one of the leading
ong shots. The other American entry,
Jesse Metcalf's Theras, also was given
only an outside chance.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.