New High Speeds
By Modern Trains
From the Kansas City Times
The railroads have begun to catch up
with the boys who are bearing down
hard on the accelerator, and high speed,
along with safety and comfort, has
become an obsession-high speed, wheth-
er obtained by steam, Diesel or elec-
tricity, each having its partisans and
cach streamlining until there isn't a
wrinkle left on the surface.
The English point with pride to the
famous Cheltenham Flyer, which runs
between London and Cheltenham, 122
miles, at an average speed of 52.3 miles
an hour, making 71.4 between Swindon
and London. But in point-to-point tim-
ing, the Santa Fe's new Super Chief
(with no desire to start an argument)
can probably claim to be the fastest
train in the world. The distance between
Caddoa and Prowers, Col., is 10.8 miles,
and the Super Chief, drawn by a 240-ton
Diesel-electric engine, rockets over this
stretch in exactly six minutes, or at the
speed of 108 miles an hour,
-0-
The challenge is, of course, that of
competition-that of busses, motor cars
and airplanes-and the railroads, with
praiseworthy zest, have taken up the
gauntlet.
We were waiting one
frigid night last winter for a south-
bound Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul
train on the platform of that road's
station in Milwaukee. It was fifteen
minutes before train time. A distant
humming became a crescendo of ap-
palling sound, and with a roar like an
explosion the Milwaukee's crack Hia-
watha, fastest steam train in the world,
flashed through, a silver-gray blur,
clean-lined, snow-coated, and was gone.
This is one of the so-called "trains of
tomorrow," specializing in speed and
service, which means luxury, if you
want it-you can get hostesses and a
Hawaiian steel guitar orchestra on a
Florida-bound special-or the most re-
freshing simplicity matched with com-
fort. Service is the word. The names of
these trains nudge the imagination;
Sunset Limited, Abraham Lincoln, Green
Diamond, Argonaut, Mark Twain,
Zephyr, Mountain Bluebird, Columbia
and, of course, the famous Twentieth
Century, which now "slows down to 70
for a curve" and makes the New York-
Chicago run of 960 miles "easily" in
sixteen and one-half hours,
-0-
Speaking of the Century, time was
when there were crowds at the way-
stations to watch its famous ancestor,
the New York Central's Empire State
Express, pass on the same run, making
the same distance in the then unprec-
edented time of twenty-four hours. A
writer in the November National Geo-
graphic Magazine, J. R. Hildebrand, tells
us that this old custom-"Goin' down to
the deepo to see the Flyer go through"
-has been revived in the West, where
the folk flock by thousands, in Model T's
or afoot, or even by horse and buggy, to
see the Burlington's Zephyr pass.
"They gather," he says, "for the silvery
streak of the stainless-steel Zephyrs,
for the polished angle-worm dash of
the 'Cities' fleet, which plies from Chi-
cago out to Portland, to Denver. to San
Francisco and to Los Angeles; for the
red-and-yellow splotch of the Hiawatha
against Wisconsin's green meadows; for
the sturdy, square-jawed '400', steaming
standard locomotive defiance to Diesel
and electrification speed, and the Indian-
head contours of Hollywood's pet
Chiefs." And a passenger remarks: "It's
been ten years since I saw crowds
waving to trains that didn't have the
President aboard."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.