STATE EMPLOYES
TOLD TO TAKE TEST
200 Blanketed Into Merit Sys-
tem By Nice Are Notified
By Jones
Action Against Any Who
May Fail To Pass Is Not
Disclosed
Harry C. Jones, State Employment
Commissioner, yesterday notified 200
officeholders who were blanketed into
the Merit System recently by Gover-
nor Nice's executive order, they must
pass standard tests.
Mr. Jones, however, did not disclose
what action he would take against
those who failed in tests for classifica-
tion under the system.
Cites Cheltenham Case
"Should any of the employes con-
cerned be found unfit," the commis-
sioner asserted, "and thus present a
situation corresponding to that recent-
ly found at Cheltenham School for
(Negro) Boys, the decision of the
Court of Appeals, now pending in that
case, may clarify the State Employ-
ment Commissioner's legal responsi-
bility."
In the Cheltenham case, employes of
that institution were blanketed into
the Merit System by a legislative act,
but Mr. Jones refused to accept those
that failed classification tests.
Says Remedy Is Clear
"So far as the relation of 'qualifica-
tion' to 'competence' is concerned,
classification tests can only determine
ability to do the work required." Mr.
Jones declared. "If the employe has the
qualifications and fails to apply them
the remedy is clear and is provided
for in Merit System rules. Employes
brought into the service by executive
orders are in no different position from
others in this respect."
Among those notified by letter that
they must pass classification tests were
such Republicans as Nathan L. Smith.
chief engineer of the State Roads Com-
mission; Clay A. Nice, the Governor's
nephew and secretary of the State
Board of Hairdressers and Beauty
Culturists, and Harry L. Katz, deputy
loan commissioner.
Mr. Jones, in a memorandum to de-
partment heads and employes of offices
covered by Governor Nice's executive
erder, said the employes "are held to
be in the classified service and to be
subject to such qualification tests for
classification as the State Employment
Commissioner should prescribe.
"Pending completion of the State
Employment Commissioner's classifica- the standard test for the classification passing rating will be reported to the
tion of positions, and of the tests neces- in which they must receive a passing State Employment Commissioner for
sary to establish the fitness of incum rating of not less than the minimum
such action as he may thereafter pre-
required of all new applications for
State employment in the classified scribe."
service. A medical examination for
physical fitness also will be given.
bents, all employes concerned will be
subject to the Merit System rules and
regulations in the same way and
manner as classified employes."
Incumbents were told to fill out ap- "Employes receiving passing ratings
plications for classification and send will be assigned to the classification of
them to department heads. They, in the position in which they are em-
turn, are to submit them to Mr. Jones ployed, and will be, thereafter, sub-
not later than December 23.
ject to the provisions of Merit System
After job studies have been made rule No. 55, which provides for re-
signed to each position, "incumbents," reasons,
and Merit System classification as-newal for incompetency and other
Mr. Jones explained, will be given "Employes who fail to receive a
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.