40% AT CHELTENHAM
CALLED IMBECILES
John B. Pyles, Superintend-
ent, Answers Critics Of
Reformatory
4
4
Forty per cent. of the Negro boys,
inmates of the House of Reformation
at Cheltenham, Md., are of such low
mental order that they must be con-
sidered imbeciles, John B. Pyles, su-
perintendent, said yesterday. Mr.
Pyles said that critics who charge that
the education, received by the boys was
below standard should take this fact
into consideration.
In a report, several days ago the
Baltimore grand jury for the Janu-
ary term charged that the educational
methods in the institution were a
"farce.". Cheltenham, a private Insti
tution, receives special aid from both
the city and state.
4
Discussing the education - systemat
A
A
f
,
(Continued on Page 4, Column 1)
40% AT CHELTENHAM
CALLED IMBECILES
John B. Pyles, Superintend-
ent, Answers Critics Of
Reformatory
QUOTES TEACHERS' TEST
Grand Jury Of Baltimore Had At-
tacked Educational Methods
At Institution
T
(Continued from Page 22)
the institution, the grand jury report
stated that the method in vogue does
not awaken interest. "It does not lead
out of the mind of the boys many
latent and useful qualities, many of
God's plans die because no teacher, im-
properly prepared, canins pire respect
and love, but all he gets is sullen obedi-
ence.
"We recommend the purchase of the
place by the city and state and the se-
lection of trained Afro-Americans who
will give the boys selective work, some
recreation and much education."
Outsiders Examined Boys
The figure quoted by Mr. Pyles in
discussing the situation at Cheltenham
is not of his own computation nor the
computations of teachers at the insti-
tuion, but is taken from a report sub-
mitted to him by Nicholas Orem,
county superintendent of schools of
Prince George's county, who, with a
group of impartial high-school teach-
ers, gave the examinations to the
boys.
"In this tabulation," Mr. Orem
wrote, "only one pupil out of every
172 had an inteligence quotient of
100; that is, showed a normal men-
tality. Seventy per cent. had an in-
telligence quotient below eighty and
forty per cent. were so low in mental
capacity as to be classed as morons,
and fully one-fourth of the pupils are
in the class of feeble-minded mentally."
Questions Knowledge Gained
It is this type of boy who is being
sent from Baltimore and the State to
Cheltenham, officials of the school say,
and it is this type with whom teachers
must deal in an effort to give them a
certain amount of school learning.
What knowledge is gained and the ex-
tent to which it is used after the
youths leave the institution, is ques-
tionable, one teacher said.
An investigation yesterday of the
institution, which includes seven spaci-
ous buildings and 1,200 acres of farm
lands, revealed an old, established, well
cared for institution. The red brick of
the buildings has aged well and the
white pine floors are scrubbed scrupu-
lously clean. The farm lands are well
planted and the boys, to outward ap-
pearances, seem to be well fed and
clothed.
Some Factors Considered
Some of the factors, however, to be
considered in the education program
have already been stated. A few more
are:
The mentality tests proved con-
clusively that the majority of the
youths at the institution were cap-
able of taking a very small amount
of mental traming.
The environment from which they
came was adverse to any mental
training.
Social diseases in a great num-
ber of cases had played havoc with
the youth's physical make-up, thus
eliminating, or at least detracting
from whatever mental powers he
might have had.
Boys Often Returned
These conditions, H. C. Dow, princi-
pal of the school at Cheltenham, said,
regulate the type of training to be
given to the boy. Very often the boy
is paroled, only to be returned to the
institution. Invariably the boy will ad-
mit he has had no use for his school-
ing during that period, nor has he
made any effort to further his eduen-
tion by going to school.
The institution, which is privately
owned, was founded in 1879 and the
property and the administration build-
ing were donated by Enoch Pratt.
Since founding of the institution ef-
forts have been made to have the State
take it over and Negroes, at the State
Legislature, and through other chan-
Now Has 281 Boys
Numerous attacks have been made
on the institution and its management,
and in every instance, Mr. Pyles said,
the fault-finders have suggested that
the city or State take it over.
At, the present time there are 281
boys in the reformatory, their ages
hanging from S to 21. The institution is
conducted by a board of directors con-
sisting of sixteen members, two of
whom are appointed by, the Mayor and
two by the Governor. There is a House
of Reformation committee, consisting
of those who contribute to the institu-
tion. Fifty will assure a life member-
ship. Twelve members of the board are
elected by the association.
State Gave $20,000 Last Year
Theer is no endowment other than
the income derived from city, state
and county. The State last year ap-
propriated $20,000, but that amount,
Mr. Pyles said, fluctuates. The city and
county pay $200 per year for every
boy committed to the institution.
table soup, meat, potatoes, some
Approximately $15,000 a year was greens, bread and butter and milk.
realized from the produce grown on Following luncheon the boys return
the prpoerty until the last Legislature to their 100ms or 'school rooms and
forced the institution to discontinue yesterday they could be heard singing
this practice. Truckers in he vicinity spirituals or modern hymns. In the
objected. Now the only products grown afternoon they were free. The boys
aro for consumption by the boys and arise at 5 vnd go to bed between 7 and
officials.
S, with the exception of those going
Have Comparative Freedom to night schools.
The boys, many of whom are very There are two teachers for the day
small for their ages, have comparative schools and two for the night, all rec-
freedom on the property, officials said. ognized by the county school authori-
Those over 10 years of age work in the ties. While most of the work is ex-
fields during the day and go to school tremely fundamental, some of the draw-
ai night. Those under 16 years attend ing and manual art work shows some
school during the day and, at the same originality, if not a great deal of
time, perform some manual labor.
finesse, teachers said.
On Sundays, they wear blue uni-All the inmates can be paroled at
forms, copied from military schools, to the end of thirteen months, Mr. Pyles
chapel. They march to their meals and said, if their conduct warrants. There
have drill, two and three times a week. is a merit system which, with good ber
They sit down to clean white tables havior, boys are allowed to cut their
-on poreclain stools. A monitor passes terms materially, regardless of the sen-
out, the food which consists of vege-tence.