WASHINGTON
COUNTY'S NYA
WORK TO HALT
All Projects, Including
Defense Training, To
Stop April 1
Brown Also Says Some
State Programs Will
Go On War List

With National Youth Admin-
istration programs in Maryland
being, curtailed as a result of an
order by Aubrey Williams, NYA
administrator, all NYA projects
in Washington county, including
training for defense industries,
will be terminated by April 1, Glen
D. Brown, State NYA director, an-
nounced yesterday.

Mr. Brown, who made a four-
day reorganization survey in West-
ern Maryland last week, also said
that some NYA programs in the
State hitherto considered non-de-
fense activities will be transferred
to defense lists of the organization
following Mr. Williams' order to
eliminate all projects that are not
training workers for war produc-
tion.

Mr. Brown, it was disclosed, made
his survey trip after he had been
visited here by Mr. Williams. This
conference, ten days ago, was not
revealed until yesterday.

Drop In Rolls
The number of youths on NYA
rolls in Hagerstown. hub of Wash-
ington county, has dropped from a
peak of 900 a year ago to 99 as of 1
yesterday. Mr. Brown explained.

Meanwhile, Benjamin C. Willis;1
superintendent of Washington
county schools, said the public
school system has trained for de-1
fense industries 5,531 persons since
January 6, 1941, and that classes, 1
now on a sixteen-hour basis, will
return to a twenty-four-hour day
next week when scores of women
will start training.

Other results of the Williams 1
order, as enumerated by Mr. Brown, 1
will be:

Termination of the entire non-de-
fense program of the NYA in
Maryland by April 1..

Immediate turnover of a commu-
nity center, supposed to cost
approximately $50,000 and
built by NYA students, to the
Mayor and City Council of
Lonaconing.

Immediate closing of a sewing
project at Brunswick.

Automatic closing out of, high-
school and college-student aid
on June 30.

Not Yet Informed
Mr. Willis said he had not been
informed of the proposal of the
NYA to close all of its projects in
Washington county. He explained
that some of the NYA enrollees in
the county had been attending both
NYA and the county school classes.

"I presume they attended the
county school classes for defense
industry to obtain practical knowl-
edge," Mr. Willis said. "I have been
told they were supposed to get
work experience in the NYA classes.
I do not know what work experi-
ence is"

Mr. Willis said the 5,531 persons
who have been trained in the Wash-
ington county public schools for
defense industry received their
education "at less than $20 a
trainee."

Of the total, he explained, one
third were employed and attended
the county school classes for addi-
tional supplementary training. The
remaining two-thirds took pre-
employment courses.

NYA Feature
"Then, there were the NYA
youths we had on a part-time basis,"
Mr. Willis said. "They came to us in
the morning or afternoon and at-
tended NYA classes alternately in
the morning or afternoon."

From January 6, 1941, to last
June the county school classes were
operated on a twenty-four hour
basis, seven days a week, Mr. Willis
added. In June the schedule
dropped to sixteen hours a day.
Then last Christmas women were
admitted to the county school
classes as an experiment. As a re-
(Continued on Page 21, Column 3)
to defense," he declared. "There is, Washington county, where there colleges with 1,323 students earn-
for example, the group of about seems to be no need for a NYA ing $10 to $20 a month.
twenty boys who are helping in project. Even defense programs This program will automatically
induction centers who can be taken there will be eliminated by April 1. lose on June 30.
over automatically.
The equipment there will be moved
"Then there are furniture. where it can be used beneficially.
making projects at Cheltenham and
Opinion On Machinery
in Leonardtown, Cumberland arid "I think it is a felony on the part.
Hagerstown. These are making of any organization to keep ma-
furniture that can be used in chinery for training when it can be
camps, in service centers by mili- used in some other part of this
tary units. These projects can be State or elsewhere outside the
transferred to defense lists.
State. I can't order the transfer.
"I expect to have the 770 now That has to come through Washing-
engaged on non-defense projects ton.
cut to around 300 and supervisors "Arrangements have been com-
cut accordingly, probably fifty per pleted by which public schools can
cent., by April 1, when the non-de- use the machines in their training."
sult of this, and because of increas- fense projects will close and the Mr. Brown said there are 297
ing numbers of women applying for remaining youths will be trans- youths enrolled in defense training
defense industry iraining in the ferred to defense programs. Super- in Lonaconing. Cumberland and
county, the classes will be expanded visors will be retained at a rate Frostburg; 52 in Hagerstown and
next week and placed again on a of one to eighteen.
255 in Baltimore, including those
twenty-four hour, seven-day week
at the NYA residence centers at
schedule.
Now Drawing Report
Immediate Action
"In other words, all projects Beltsville and at Reisterstown.
dealing with construction and im-
Facilities Available
provement carried on for local
He said it is not his policy "to
Mr. Brown yesterday started the benefit will terminate immediately. perpetuate the NYA, but money and
compilation of a detailed report on We will turn over all funds for de material is available to continue
NYA projects in Maryland which fense training for industry or for defense training."
he said he would submit to Senator the armed services. We are trying "The public schools can do this
Radcliffe in Washington tomorrow, to get youths to enlist."
job," he continued. "I am on rec-
"The report will be not only for The NYA community center ord on that."
Senator Radcliffe, but for any other project at Lonaconing, a town of Mr. Brown also said that Mr.
Federal, State or municipal official 2,600 population, now is under the Williams, when he came here for
or any civilian who wants to see head of finished business, Mr. "general conference" ten days ago,
it," Mr. Brown emphasized.
Brown added. It was disclosed last was in accord with Mr. Brown's
He explained that all of his ac- week that the residents of the program.
tivities since he became State di. town, which contributed $10,000 to
Referring to the school-aid pro-
rector on July 1, 1941, have been the cost of the structure, exclusive gram, Mr. Brown said that of last
directed to meeting such an order of the NYA's $50,000, are far from Wednesday there were 164 high
as Mr. Williams issued on Friday, pleased at the prospect of having schools in the State with 2.257
In this respect, Mr. Brown said: to maintain at the taxpayers' ex students participating in the NYA
"We in Maryland are far ahead pense such a luxurious item worthy student-aid program. These stu-
of the national picture.
of a municipality many times the dents were paid from $3 to $6 a
size of the Western Maryland coal month. There were twenty-seven
Ready To Go
"We have reorganized to such a
degree that we can swing right into
the program made mandatory by
the Williams' order."
center.
"We will turn it over immediate-
ly to the Mayor and City Council
of the town," Mr. Brown said.
On July 1, 1941, Mr. Brown said,
Four-Day Survey
there were 3,444 youths on non- Apropos of Western Maryland,
defense projects and 630 supervis- Mr. Brown disclosed, he spent four
ors, who included teachers, admini- days in that part of the State last
strative officers, janitors, chauf- week on the reorganization survey.
feurs and others. Last week, the ""The Brunswick sewing center is
students on non-defense projects closing out," he continued. "This
had been reduced to 770 and the sewing equipment will be brought
supervisors to eighty-seven.
to Baltimore.
The number of youths engaged "In Hagerstown, where a peak of
in defense training under the NYA 900 youths were enrolled a year
program fluctuated between 539 on ago, there are only 99 at present.
July 9, 1941, to 644 as of yesterday. "We will eliminate the NYA in
There are now fifty-six teachers in
this section.
Funds In Hand
Mr. Brown said the State NYA
still has funds to employ 800
youths and eighty-seven teachers.
"There are certain non-defense
projects that can be transferred