ATTACK ON A NEWSBOY
Negro Fined For Striking Lad
Selling Evening Sun.
As a result of the animosity of certain
newsboys to boys who sell THE EVENING
Sus, John Parraway, a 16-year-old negro,
living at 219 North Parrish street, was
fined $1 and costs, amounting to $2.45,
by Justice Stanley, at the Southwestern
Police Station, yesterday morning. Parra-
way was convicted by the magistrate of
assaulting Thomas Wells Cole, living at 241
North Fulton avenue, a 12-year-old white
boy, whose only offense in the eyes of
the negro was that he sells THE EVENING
SUN.
What inspired the hostility of the young
negro to THE EVENING SUN may be
gathered from the fact that an employe
of the circulation department of another
afternoon newspaper deposited $20.45 at
the police station Thursday afternoon to
secure the release of Parraway, and an-
other employe of the circulation depart-
ment of the same paper paid the fine after
he had been permitted to withdraw the
collateral which his fellow-employe had
deposited.
The assault on Cole is only an instance
of the hostility that has been incited
throughout the city against boys who han-
dle THE EVENING SUN. In some сабек
the papers have been taken from the boys
and torn into pieces and the youngsters
made to fleet in terror.
l'arraway's assault was committed at
Gilmor and Saratoga streets, where THE
EVENING SUN newsboys have been fre-
quently molested by those who sell other
papers. It is understood that the word
has been passed along that the boys must
not handle THE EVENING SUN.
Cole is so diminutive in size that his
face just appeared above the ralling in
front of the magistrate's desk as he told
his story. He said that he was getting
on a car with his papers, when Parraway
pushed him off and kicked him, causing him
to fall to the ground and narrowly escaped
being run over.
Mr. Howard S. La Salle, a wholesale
agent of THE EVENING SUN, who ordered
Parraway's arrest, testified that he saw
the negro strike the white boy. The agent
said he had been stationed on the corner to
see that the boys who sell THE EVENING
SUN were not molested. Some newsboys
have been instructed, Mr. La Salle also
said, not to sell THE EVENING SUN and
have been run away from the corner when
they did not obey instructions. These had
been made timid by the threats, but Mr. La
Salle told them he would look out for
them.
Patrolman Frederick, who made the ar-
rest, said the newsboys have been having
trouble on that corner. The patrolman
warned the boys Thursday afternoon.
While he was away from the corner a few
minutes the assault occurred.
Charles Johnson, colored, 430 North Gil-
mor street, testified that he saw Cole
get on the car and Parraway strike at
him. When this testimony had been heard
Parraway admitted striking Cole, but de-
nied kicking him.
Justice Stanley, in deciding the case,
told the boys that they must understand
that they are at liberty to sell any news-
papers they desire. He told Parraway
that he ought to be sent to the Colored
House of Reformation, at Cheltenham,
and that he would be severely punished
if arrested again on such a charge.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.