State-Wide Enactments

A careful editorial list of State-wide bills passed by the 1937 Legislature follows. Another installment of bills of State-wide nature will be presented in The Star tomorrow and later a review of legislation affecting each of the various counties.

In the order that follows, the chapter numbers of the acts are given and, where convenience was made to do so, the popular names of such acts are used, or short titles are given.
Road Named
17—Naming of highway, reads: “The State Highway Commission shall designate State Highway No. 264, beginning at the intersection of State Highway No. 15, near the town of New Haven, in Allen County, Indiana, and running thence in a general easterly direction through the towns of Woodburn, Antwerp, Payne, Paulding, Defiance, Napoleon, Holgate, Deshler, McComb, Findlay, Carey, Upper Sandusky, Bucyrus, Galion, Crestline, Shelby, Mansfield, Ashland, Wooster, Massillon, Canton, Minerva, Carrollton, New Philadelphia, Uhrichsville, Dennison, Cadiz, St. Clairsville, Bridgeport, Martins Ferry, Bellaire, and thence to the Ohio River at the town of Bridgeport, Ohio, as the Anthony Wayne Highway.”
18—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of East Liverpool, Ohio.
20—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Steubenville, Ohio.
21—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Bellaire, Ohio.
22—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Marietta, Ohio.
23—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Pomeroy, Ohio.
24—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Ironton, Ohio.
25—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Ashland, Kentucky.
26—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Evansville, Indiana.
27—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Mt. Vernon, Indiana.
28—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Lawrenceburg, Indiana.
29—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Rising Sun, Indiana.
30—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Madison, Indiana.
31—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Jeffersonville, Indiana.
32—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of New Albany, Indiana.
33—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Aurora, Indiana.
34—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Vevay, Indiana.
35—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Rockport, Indiana.
36—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Cannelton, Indiana.
37—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Tell City, Indiana.
38—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Owensboro, Kentucky.
39—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Henderson, Kentucky.
40—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Paducah, Kentucky.
41—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Cairo, Illinois.
42—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Metropolis, Illinois.
43—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Brookport, Illinois.
44—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Mound City, Illinois.
45—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Grand Chain, Illinois.
46—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Olive Branch, Illinois.
47—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Cairo, Illinois.
48—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Hickman, Kentucky.
49—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Columbus, Kentucky.
50—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of New Madrid, Missouri.
51—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Caruthersville, Missouri.
52—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Osceola, Arkansas.
53—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Memphis, Tennessee.
54—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Helena, Arkansas.
55—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Greenville, Mississippi.
56—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Vicksburg, Mississippi.
57—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Natchez, Mississippi.
58—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
59—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of New Orleans, Louisiana.
60—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Mobile, Alabama.
61—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Pensacola, Florida.
62—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Panama City, Florida.
63—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Apalachicola, Florida.
64—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Carrabelle, Florida.
65—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of St. Marks, Florida.
66—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Steinhatchee, Florida.
67—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Suwannee, Florida.
68—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Cedar Keys, Florida.
69—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Crystal River, Florida.
70—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Tarpon Springs, Florida.
71—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Clearwater, Florida.
72—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of St. Petersburg, Florida.
73—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Bradenton, Florida.
74—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Sarasota, Florida.
75—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Venice, Florida.
76—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Punta Gorda, Florida.
77—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Fort Myers, Florida.
78—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Naples, Florida.
79—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Everglades, Florida.
80—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Miami, Florida.
81—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
82—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of West Palm Beach, Florida.
83—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Stuart, Florida.
84—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Vero Beach, Florida.
85—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Melbourne, Florida.
86—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Titusville, Florida.
87—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Daytona Beach, Florida.
88—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of St. Augustine, Florida.
89—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Jacksonville, Florida.
90—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Fernandina, Florida.
91—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Brunswick, Georgia.
92—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Savannah, Georgia.
93—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Charleston, South Carolina.
94—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Wilmington, North Carolina.
95—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Norfolk, Virginia.
96—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Baltimore, Maryland.
97—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
98—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of New York, New York.
99—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Boston, Massachusetts.
100—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Portland, Maine.
101—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Seattle, Washington.
102—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of San Francisco, California.
103—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of San Diego, California.
104—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Honolulu, Hawaii.
105—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Juneau, Alaska.
106—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Anchorage, Alaska.
107—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Nome, Alaska.
108—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Fairbanks, Alaska.
109—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Whitehorse, Yukon Territory.
110—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Dawson, Yukon Territory.
111—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Inuvik, Northwest Territories.
112—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Yellowknife, Northwest Territories.
113—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Iqaluit, Nunavut.
114—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Ottawa, Ontario.
115—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Toronto, Ontario.
116—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Montreal, Quebec.
117—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Quebec City, Quebec.
118—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Halifax, Nova Scotia.
119—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador.
120—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of London, England.
121—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Paris, France.
122—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Berlin, Germany.
123—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Rome, Italy.
124—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Moscow, Russia.
125—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Tokyo, Japan.
126—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Beijing, China.
127—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Sydney, Australia.
128—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Buenos Aires, Argentina.
129—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
130—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Cape Town, South Africa.
131—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Cairo, Egypt.
132—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Jerusalem, Israel.
133—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Mecca, Saudi Arabia.
134—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Tehran, Iran.
135—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of New Delhi, India.
136—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Bangkok, Thailand.
137—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Singapore, Singapore.
138—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Jakarta, Indonesia.
139—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Manila, Philippines.
140—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Seoul, South Korea.
141—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Pyongyang, North Korea.
142—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.
143—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Kathmandu, Nepal.
144—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Thimphu, Bhutan.
145—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Dhaka, Bangladesh.
146—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Islamabad, Pakistan.
147—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Kabul, Afghanistan.
148—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Baghdad, Iraq.
149—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Ankara, Turkey.
150—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Athens, Greece.
151—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Madrid, Spain.
152—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Lisbon, Portugal.
153—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Dublin, Ireland.
154—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Reykjavik, Iceland.
155—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Oslo, Norway.
156—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Stockholm, Sweden.
157—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Helsinki, Finland.
158—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Copenhagen, Denmark.
159—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Amsterdam, Netherlands.
160—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Brussels, Belgium.
161—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Luxembourg City, Luxembourg.
162—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Bern, Switzerland.
163—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Vienna, Austria.
164—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Prague, Czech Republic.
165—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Bratislava, Slovakia.
166—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Budapest, Hungary.
167—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Ljubljana, Slovenia.
168—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Zagreb, Croatia.
169—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
170—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Belgrade, Serbia.
171—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Podgorica, Montenegro.
172—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Pristina, Kosovo.
173—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Skopje, North Macedonia.
174—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Tirana, Albania.
175—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Sofia, Bulgaria.
176—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Bucharest, Romania.
177—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Chisinau, Moldova.
178—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Kyiv, Ukraine.
179—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Minsk, Belarus.
180—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Vilnius, Lithuania.
181—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Riga, Latvia.
182—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Tallinn, Estonia.
183—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Tbilisi, Georgia.
184—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Yerevan, Armenia.
185—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Baku, Azerbaijan.
186—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Ashgabat, Turkmenistan.
187—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Tashkent, Uzbekistan.
188—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Dushanbe, Tajikistan.
189—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan.
190—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Astana, Kazakhstan.
191—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Naypyidaw, Myanmar.
192—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Vientiane, Laos.
193—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
194—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Hanoi, Vietnam.
195—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
196—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Bandar Seri Begawan, Brunei.
197—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Dili, East Timor.
198—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea.
199—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Honiara, Solomon Islands.
200—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Suva, Fiji.
201—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Apia, Samoa.
202—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Nuku'alofa, Tonga.
203—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Funafuti, Tuvalu.
204—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Tarawa, Kiribati.
205—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Majuro, Marshall Islands.
206—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Palikir, Federated States of Micronesia.
207—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Yaren, Nauru.
208—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Port-Vila, Vanuatu.
209—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Wellington, New Zealand.
210—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Canberra, Australia.
211—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Washington, D.C., United States.
212—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of New York, New York, United States.
213—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Los Angeles, California, United States.
214—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Chicago, Illinois, United States.
215—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Houston, Texas, United States.
216—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States.
217—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Phoenix, Arizona, United States.
218—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of San Antonio, Texas, United States.
219—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of San Diego, California, United States.
220—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Dallas, Texas, United States.
221—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of San Jose, California, United States.
222—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Jacksonville, Florida, United States.
223—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Indianapolis, Indiana, United States.
224—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of San Francisco, California, United States.
225—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Austin, Texas, United States.
226—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Columbus, Ohio, United States.
227—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Fort Worth, Texas, United States.
228—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Charlotte, North Carolina, United States.
229—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Detroit, Michigan, United States.
230—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of El Paso, Texas, United States.
231—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Memphis, Tennessee, United States.
232—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Seattle, Washington, United States.
233—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Denver, Colorado, United States.
234—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Boston, Massachusetts, United States.
235—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Nashville, Tennessee, United States.
236—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Baltimore, Maryland, United States.
237—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, United States.
238—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Louisville, Kentucky, United States.
239—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Portland, Oregon, United States.
240—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Las Vegas, Nevada, United States.
241—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States.
242—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Albuquerque, New Mexico, United States.
243—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Tucson, Arizona, United States.
244—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Fresno, California, United States.
245—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Sacramento, California, United States.
246—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Long Beach, California, United States.
247—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Kansas City, Missouri, United States.
248—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Mesa, Arizona, United States.
249—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Virginia Beach, Virginia, United States.
250—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Atlanta, Georgia, United States.
251—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Colorado Springs, Colorado, United States.
252—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Omaha, Nebraska, United States.
253—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Raleigh, North Carolina, United States.
254—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Miami, Florida, United States.
255—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Oakland, California, United States.
256—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States.
257—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Tulsa, Oklahoma, United States.
258—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Cleveland, Ohio, United States.
259—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Wichita, Kansas, United States.
260—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Arlington, Texas, United States.
261—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of New Orleans, Louisiana, United States.
262—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Bakersfield, California, United States.
263—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Tampa, Florida, United States.
264—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Aurora, Colorado, United States.
265—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Anaheim, California, United States.
266—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Honolulu, Hawaii, United States.
267—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Santa Ana, California, United States.
268—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Corpus Christi, Texas, United States.
269—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Riverside, California, United States.
270—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Lexington, Kentucky, United States.
271—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Stockton, California, United States.
272—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of St. Louis, Missouri, United States.
273—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of St. Paul, Minnesota, United States.
274—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States.
275—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Cincinnati, Ohio, United States.
276—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Sacramento, California, United States.
277—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Newark, New Jersey, United States.
278—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Orlando, Florida, United States.
279—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Irvine, California, United States.
280—Authorizing the State Highway Commission to construct a bridge across the Ohio River at or near the city of Orlando, Florida, United States