CHELTENHAM HOME
CHARGES ARE DENIED
Report On Negro Institution
"Greatly Exaggerated,"
Board Says.
That reports regarding mismanage-
iment of the House of Reformation for
Colored Boys, at Cheltenham, Prince
George's county, are "greatly exagger-
ated," but that an investigation by dis-
interested parties is welcomed, was the
sentiment expressed yesterday by the
board of managers of the institution at
a special meeting.
The board met in executive session
in the Vickers Building at the request
of William J. Ogden. secretary of the
State Board of Aid and Charities, and
Nathaniel G. Grasty, secretary of the
Board of Supervisors of City Charities.
The meeting was called to consider the
recent grand jury report charging mis-
management at the institution and rec-
ommending the dismissal of John B.
Pyles, superintendent.
To Have Six New Members.
In order that the jury's charges may
be sifted and the whole situation stuudiod
carefully by disinterested persons, it
was explained, the board empowered
Mr. Ogden and Mr. Grasty to select six
new members, thereby increasing its
membership from 16 to 22. and also
giving them the power to name a presi-
dent for the board. The additional
members and the president will be
named before the next meeting of the
board early next month, Mr. Grasty
said, and the new members will make n
survey of the entire situation.
"The board of managers showed a
complete willingness to cooperate with
us in every way." Mr. Grasty said, "ani
the action taken by them is satisfactory
to both the city and state representa-
Lives."
Pyles Is Defended.
:
It was the opinion of board members
that the most serious charge included
in the grand jury's report was that per-
taining to the general morale of the
institution. Members of the board said
thes felt that Mr. Isles is a "born dis-
ciplinarian," and until the charges
against him have been investigated by
the new members of the board no
further netion will be taken.
The city's contract with the institu-
tion, which expired December 31 and
which had not been renewed, will be re-
newed at once, Mr. Grasty declared
after the close of the meeting. There
are about 200 boys from the city at the
institution, he said, and last year the
city paid about $35,000 for their main-
tenance. The institution, it was pointed
out, also receives $15,000 annually from
the State. About 100 boys from the
Maryland counties also are kept there.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.