FOOD WAS FUGITIVES' UNDOING
Ate So Much They Fell Asleep And
Wero Rounded Up.
Inmates Nos. 3430, 2664, 2057, 3436, 2699
and 2756, all colored, and all escaped from
the Cheltenham Reformatory, were dis-
covered yesterday morning by Mrs. John
Wengers, near Westport, on the Annapolis
road, lying asleep on her kitchen floor.
She screamed for help and her husband
and several neighbors came to her aid,
called Constable Muul and Patrolman Me-
Kay, of Mount Winans Police Station, and
held the negroes until the officers of the
law appeared.
All six, the oldest of whom is 21 and
the youngest 15, told their tale to Justice
Charles J. Hull, of Mount Winans, yester-
day morning. The agreed-upon facts were
these:
As told in THE SUN yesterday, they es-
caped from the reformatory Tuesday even-
ing while moving pictures were being
shown in one of the halls. They started
towart Annapolis Junction and paused
first at a switch on the Washington, Bal-
timore and Annapolis Electric Railway line
near the Junction. Norman Smiley, 15
years old, and "Convict" No. 3430 began
fooling with the switch. They talked
about throwing the electric cars off the
track and Smiley started to throw the
switch open. If he had done it, the only
barm would probably have been to switch
the car on to the side track and then back
on the main track again. But it was a
daring proposition to the "convicts," so
they made Smiley let the switch alone and
started on their way again.
The boys broke open a small store on
their way toward Westport, but stole
nothing of great value. When they came
to the home of Mr. Wengers they were
tired and hungry. They climbed in a rear
window of the house, found the kitchen
and a bountiful stock of freshly cooked
meat, custard pies, sauerkraut and other
delicacies. They gorged themselves, be-
came too full and sleepy to get out of the
house and went to sleep on the kitchen
floor. And there Mrs. Wengers found them
when she went down to start breakfast.
The boys were held for the Cheltenham
authorities. Besides Smiley their names
were Daniel Gray, No. 2664, 19 years old,
of Denton, Md.: Jerome Johuson, No. 2987,
17 years old. Baltimore: Richard Jenefer,
No. 3438. 16. Oxen Hill, Md.; George
Luckett. No. 2899, 10. Baltimore, and Wil-
Ham Fischer, No. 2756, 21, of Lodensville.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.