HOW MILWAUKEE IS SOLVING JUVENILE PROBLEM
The new. Detention Home and Juvenile Court, Building in Milwaukee, which will cost $80,000.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
A DAY IN JUVENILE COURT
Wayward Boys And Girls Developed
Into Good Men And Women,
HOW JUDGE WILLIAMS WORKS
Finds That A Lecture Is The Best
Remedy For The Wayward-Syrı
pathy Better Than Severity:
There was a little baby that no ona
would have; a boy who would not behave,
a negro urchin who had an ice-pick that
did not belong to him and several other
cases in the Juvenile Court yesterday.
Despite the stifling heat Judge Williams
looked over his "specs" at each case and
tried each time to make the world better.
It was just an ordinary sort of day for
cases at the court, but it seemed to bring
out the contrasts, which showed what a
force and guide for good it is in Baltimore.
The boy who would not behave was given a
lecture by the Judge, the kind his father
would give him. He probably will not be
back again on charges. Ten years honce
the boy will be a good citizen. If he had
not been taken to the court he might have
grown up a thief or a burglar.
It was hot. The Judge fanned and the
court attaches fanned, and the little boys
and girls on the benches looked very pent-
tent and very scared. The mothers and
fathers appeared worried. All were warm,
uncomfortable warm. But then Judge
Williams put on his "specs," pecullar
"specs" that perch on the end of his nose
and will not let him look harsh and severe.
Then he began.
The Negro Boy With The Pick.
First was the negro boy with the ice
pick. IHe was 10 years old and talked like
he was 40. He had found the ice-pick, he
sald, and he certainly did not steal it. A
man had seen it the same time he did, ly
ing in the street, but he got it first,, and
when he tried to sell it on Harrison strect
the big policeman got him. He said he
lived on "West Wolfe street" and had
never seen his "real father." He lived
with his aunt, and he did not steal the
plek, anyhow. So the Judge told him to
go home and be good. He went quick, his
eyes glancing apprehensively back.
Then the little baby, whom no one
wanted, was talked of. His mother had
become Insane and been sent to Bayview.
IIis father was dend. The Supervisors of
City Charities found it out and took the
baby to its mother's relatives. The aunt
did not want it, the cousin could not care
for it-nobody wanted a baby in hot weath.
er. The Judge thought maybe the Sisters
at St. Elizabeth's Home would not mind
adding just another to their home, and so
the baby slept last night in its foundling
cot.
A wide-eyed negro boy, with spine trou-
ble, was next brought up. His mother died
yesterday morning at Bayview. He had
been living with a "bad, bad man." Two
negro women said they had telephoned for
"Parker," meaning Captain Parker, of the
Society for the Protection of Children.
Judge Williams saw the negro boy's eyes
fill and his lips quiver. He smiled at him
over the specs and he stopped crying.
Then he sent him to the House of Reforma-
tion for Colored Boys at Cheltenham, and
the negro women went out "thanking
Gawd."
Watch And Chain Her Downfall.
The next was a little negro girl, a coun-
try girl from Rock Hall, who came to Bal
timore to be a mald. But her mistress went
out several days ago and left her alone in
the house. The sight of a gold watch and
chain broke down the barriers of her Sun-
day-school lessons and she took them.
Patrolman O'Donnell caught her in half a
day. The Judge looked serious. He asked
Julia why she took it, but Julia did not
know. The only thing Julia did know was
that she wanted to get back to that old
"mammy" in Kent county. And Judge
Williams directed his bailiff to see her safe-
ly on the bont today and dismissed the case.
Julia will think a long time before doing
wrong again.
Two boys came up for shooting off fire-
crackers. The biggest one said he knew it
was wrong, but he "Just did it." He said
his "gang" was with him, so the Judge
commissioned him to break up the gang.
And the boy demurred and said maybe he
could not do it, but he is coming b
Thursday to report progress. Ife
the Judge calls "one of my missionaries
A boy with a slungshot was told that
"what goes up, must come down." He had
not thought of that while shooting, and he
was penitent. He sald manfully he was
sorry and was dismissed.
Said Jail Would Ruin Him,
The next case was hard. A negro child.
was accused of stealing five pool balls.
The colored lad denied it. He reckoned. he
had been with the boys who stole them, but
he did not take any of the balls. The
Judge sald:
"This is a case where a detention house
Is necessary. This boyeshould not be al
lowed to go, and yet I will not send him to
jail. It would ruin him."
"Jimmy" was paroled in the custody of
a probation officer. The Judge also deliv
ered a lecture to the boy's mother.
"It seems to me," he said, "that the col
ored women of Baltimore do not exercise,
in most cases, any control whatever over
their children or seek to do so. They let
them run wild and allow them to develop
into criminals without trying to correct
them. Something must be done."
The last case was the little boy who
would not behave. He had been to St
Mary's Industrial School for two months,
but he liked home better, so he said he
would certainly behave this time. The
Judge thought so, too. And then his day's
work was over. That happens every day
in the Juvenile Court. The Washington
authorities say it is the best in the coun
try. Baltimore does not realize it yet.