CITATIONS NOTE
POLICE FITNESS
Courage, Alertness And Mem-
ory Given Praise
Police Department. citations
awarded to eight policemen this
week gave recognition to a variety
of accomplishments, including "ex-
emplary courage" shown by one
policeman in exposing himself to
an armed bandit; alertness in de-
tecting a fire; good memory work,
and the ability to track down a
wanted person on description.
Three patrolmen who received
commendations were praised for
doing their work on their own
time. These were Patrolmen Peter
Politis, Morris Stein and Henry F.
Plunkett, all of the Southern dis-
trict.
In Battle With Bandit
Sergt. James W. Tyler, attached
to headquarters, was the policeman
cited for "exemplary courage."
On May 19, the sergeant saw a
Negro leave a liquor store on West
Baltimore street and fire two shots
at a white man who followed him
out. When the sergeant ordered
the armed man to stop, the bandit
faced the policeman and pointed a
45-caliber automatic pistol at him.
Sergeant Tyler fired two shots, and
the man fled. Three times he fired
back at the pursuing sergeant, who
returned the fire.
As the bandit crouched in an
alley, the sergeant, now without
ammunition, ordered two other po-
licemen to approach from the end
of the alley. They rushed the man,
who was semi-conscious from
wounds. Later that night he died
at Franklin Square Hospital after
admitting holding up the store. In-
vestigation showed that the bandit.
identified as Jordan L. Overby, of
the 1600 block Bakbury court, had
committed at least 22 holdups, ob-
taining $3.756.
Patience And Ability
Patrolman Edward G. Connor.
Southern district, was the police-
man commended for patience and
ability in tracking down a man on
description.
Early on May 20, the patrolman
became suspicious about a car
parked at Chesapeake avenue and
Ninth street and learned it had
been stolen. An oil company watch-
man told him the car had dis-
charged a passenger, who went
aboard a ship at the oil company's
pier.
On board, Patrolman Connor
found a seaman who said he had
been driven to the pier by a man
he met in a tavern. He gave a
description. For two nights, the
policeman visited all taverns in the
vicinity of the place where the sea-
man had met the driver of the car.
On May 23. he picked up a man
identified as Vincent Galek, 32, of
the first block of South Ann street,
who admitted crossing the wires of
the car and moving it. Tried before
Judge Emory H. Niles on June 3.
Galek was placed on probation and
ordered to pay, $50 to the car owner
for damages to the vehicle.
On Own Initiative
Patrolmen Politis and Stein,
commended for working "long
hours" on their own initiative, watch on a grocery store in the 700-
cleared up a series of crimes, ac- block South Charles street.
cording to the citation given them. He was acting on information
Following reports of burglaries supplied by Gailland Frey, of Frey
in the Chery Hill housing project, & Sons, who reported that a
the two patrolmen, in plainclothes, truck driver employed by the firm
stationed themselves in the shop-
ping center. They noticed a 10-year- Charles street address to a grocer
was delivering merchandise at the
a
who was not a Frey customer.
An hour after he began the vigil
Patrolman. Plunkett observed
truck marked Frey & Sons. He
saw the driver unload and take
old boy spending money freely but
had no evidence on which to arrest
him.
After report of another theft in
which a wallet and necklace were into the store five cases of grocer-
taken, the wallet was found on the ies. He followed the man and asked
boy and the necklace,. at his home. him to go to the station. The driver,
identified as Robert Thomas, of
as $180. He implicated four other
youngsters.
them to the Charles street store
deliveries to a store on South Han-
The boy finally admitted not
only this theft but also a number the 600 block Sharp street, admit-
of others, including the breaking ted that since last September he
and entering of homes and the had been stealing groceries, taking
taking of articles valued as high and returning at night to make
While his case was pending in over street, where he sold them.
Juvenile Court, the boy stole an
automatic pistol, which, fully Brought before Judge Herman
loaded. was found on him. He was M. Moser in Criminal Court on
committed to Cheltenham. Another August 31 on six charges of lar-
boy in one of the cases was placed ceny. Thomas pleaded guilty. Im
in the Bragg Home by his parents position of sentence was deferred
and the others were put on proba- pending further investigation.
tion.
Cited For Memory Work
Praised For Alertness
Patrolman Scott Porter, South- Sergt. Dennis F. Roche. South-
western district, was the police- ern district. received his com-
man praised for "alertness and ex- mendation for memory work. He
cellent judgment" after discovery received a report that the firm of
of a fire.
Addison Clarke & Bro., in the
He "undoubtedly saved the lives 1100 block South Howard street,
of some of the sleeping occupants" had been broken into and that an
of an apartment house in the 200 ax marked Baltimore public schools
block North Fulton avenue, accord. was found on the scene. He learned,
ing to the citation.
also, that a school in the 1100 block
taken.
While walking his post, he Sharp street had been entered.
smelled smoke and noticed flames classrooms ransacked and an ax
shooting from the upper rear of Sergeant Roche recalled a juve-
the Fulton avenue premises. He ran nile he had arrested for entering
inside and to the third floor rear, a baking company. He picked up
where he awakened an occupant this boy, who finally admitted en-
and aided him from the building. tering the Howard street establish-
He stopped on the second floor to went on three occasions, getting a
arouse a man and wife and their total of $220. He implicated three
four children; then, after making other youths in one case. The boy
sure everyone else was awake, he was committed to Cheltenham on
turned in the alarm. The fire de August 6. The other three were
partment subdued the blaze, but placed on probation.
the third floor rear was wrecked.
In Taxicab Case
Patrolman Russell R., Schamel,
Central district, was cited for the
apprehension of a man wanted for
a taxicab holdup.
On July 6, in the vicinity of St.
Paul and Franklin streets, he no-
ticed the distress lights of two cabs
blinking. As he approached, one of
the drivers called to the policeman.
and said he had been held up. Pa-
trolman Schamel started toward a
man who began to run. After call-
ing several times for him to halt,
Patrolman Schamel fire two warn-
ing shots in the air, and when the
man still did not stop, the police-
man fired again.
A man wounded in the left leg
was taken to Mercy Hospital, where
he was kept under guard for several
weeks. When released front the hos-
pital, the man, identified as Charles
W. Stallings, of Lansdowne, Md..
was indicted for robbery. His case
is pending in the Criminal Court.
The third policeman commended
for off-hour duty, Patrolman Plun-
kett, received his citation for the
capture of a Negro wanted for
grocery thefts.
On July 1, after completing his
tour of duty, the patrolman began
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.