What Cheltenham Needs
Is A Steady Course.
The news that the State Planning Commis
sion is once again considering plans to re
build the Cheltenham School for Boys at a
site closer to Baltimore should make many
readers feel that this is where they came in
five years ago. Proposals and counterpro
posals regarding the future of Cheltenham
have been in the news since 1943, when the
General Assembly, on the advice of the
Maryland Commission on Juvenile Delin-
quency, voted to build a new institution for
normal delinquent Negro boys in less rural
surroundings and to utilize the old school at
Cheltenham for mentally defective ones.
The need for a new Cheltenham was gen-
erally accepted during Governor O'Conor's
administration and the money for the proj-
ect was included in Maryland's postwar
construction fund. Governor Lane, however,
scrapped the plans for the new institution
and shifted the money earmarked for, its
construction into the general funds of the
State. Governor Lane held to the theory that
Cheltenham, despite its poor location and
advanced state of deterioration, could be
suitably patched up. In line with this idea,
the State Board of Public Works, last
October, approved an "emergency" expendi-
ture of $128,300 to repair the old buildings.
Now the Cheltenham board of managers
and Mr. J. Milton Patterson, director of the
State Department of Public Welfare, are
urging anew that Cheltenham be rebuilt
from the ground up at an entirely new loca-
tion. Their arguments are the same valid
ones advanced by the juvenile-delinquency
commission and the 1943 Legislature. It re-
mains largely for Governor Lane to decide
whether it will be better in the long run to
spend a large sum now for the erection of a
modern training school for Negro boys (and
then decide how to finance it, now that
the funds set aside for this very purpose
have been spent otherwise) or to continue
spending smaller sums to meet the periodic
and inevitable emergencies arising at the
present institution. The important thing
is to have an early decision on what the
future of Cheltenham is to be. Five years
of vacillating plans and emergency programs
have done little to improve conditions at
Cheltenham to date.
1
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.