PAROLED MAN'S
RECORD CITED
Homicidal Risk' Displayed No
Unusual Trend, Official Says
The 22-year-old former convict
committed May 11 to Crownsville
State Hospital as a "homicidal
risk" was released June 21 from
the Negro mental institution he
cause he had displayed "no abnor
mal mental trends" during his con-
finement.
This was reported last night by
Dr. Jacob Morgenstern, superin-
tendent of the hospital, who said
the release had been authorized by
Dr. Arnold Eickert, clinical director
of the institution, after consultation
with the doctor in charge.
He said the man had been re-
leased "on parole" for a year, as is
the general rule, to a Baltimore
woman whom he described as
"either his foster mother or a
former landlady." The woman has
a Druid Hill avenue address,
Letter Is Only Record
The hospital has no record of the
man's activities subsequent to his
release except a letter from the
Prisoners' Aid Association dated
June 22 in which the association
said he had reported directly to its
offices.
Verification of his release, a rec-
ord of his institutional behavior and
a diagnosis of his mental condition get it. He had something special
at the time of release were for-in mind.
warded to the association as re "We are a hospital for mental
quested in the letter.
It is reported that the man, when
last heard from, was working on a
railroad in Delaware and planning
to go to New York.
5 Years In Cheltenham
His previous institutional record
ineludes five years spent at the
Cheltenham School for Boys and
more than two years spent at the
Reformatory for Males, the latte
on a sentence of June 27. 1945, to
serve an indeterminate term up to
three years for seven cases o
burglary and larceny.
parents by running away from
home persistently.
Released April 4, 1941, into a
patients. If, after due observation, home approved by the Department
a patient doesn't show mental symp- of Public Welfare, he was returned
toms, we can't keep him here if his December 19, 1941, because of
release is requested and if his re- "peculiar sexual behavior toward a
Icase seems justified."
male child" also in the home.
Dr. Morgenstern said that he per- He was again returned July 1.
sonally did not supervise all re-
leases, but that any cases in which
there was doubt were brought be-
fore the staff.
"I feel that maybe the physician
should have consulted me in this
case," he said. "There was a crimi-
nal record, and even though it. in-
He was released on parole May volved only burglary. I would like
19, 1947. from the reformatory to have participated participated in the discus-
returned for parole violation Janu
ary 14 and released May 8 upor
expiration of sentence, receiving
some industrial and good-time
credits.
His good-time credit was reduced
by five days, according to records
reformatory, because
sion."
Considers Safety First
1944-from a release June 6 of
that year to accept employment at
Waldorf, Md.-for stealing $79
from his employer, and was dis-
employer.
charged from Cheltenham Novem-
ber 17, 1944. because he had
reached the age of 18.
Employed At Hospital
His violation of his parole from
the Reformatory for Males occurred
while he was employed at a Balti-
more hospital. He was sentenced
He said he wished to make it December 11, 1947, to serve 50 days
clear that his policy in questionable in Baltimore City Jail for disorder-
cases is to keep a patient longer ly conduct in default of $50 fine.
than might be necessary rather The disorderly conduct included
cutting electric power to a hospital
than endanger society.
"Where there is any doubt, I al. nursery and shutting off the lubri-
gaged in a fight with another in ways tell the staff to consider the cator in the drinking-water power
mate April 4 in which both were
cut.
"Apparently Not Serious"
protection of society first," he said.
He explained that release "on
parole" meant that if "anything
happened" within the year, the
H. R. Raymond, superintendent, man could be returned to the hos-
said late yesterday he was unable pital without new commitment
to verify from the record a report papers. He said all releases were
that the man had slashed the other in the care of the family or some
inmate with a knife and then cut other interested person. Effort is
off the tip of his own finger in made to notify the committing
physicians of releases only where
remorse.
He said he did not recall the de they are known to be family doc-
tails of the incident and that the cors, he said.
five-day deduction he had made in Knows Nothing Of Case
the man's good-time credit indi-
cated that it "apparently was not
serious."
Dr. Vernon Scheidt, president of
The Prisoners Aid Association, said
last night at his home that he knew
nothing of the case. C. Boyd Mc-
He theorized that the cuts might
have been inflicted by a double- Divitt, executive director, could not
edged razor blade, which the in- be reached.
mates are permitted to have in The former convict's institu-
their possession. He said fights at Lional record began August. 29,
the institution were not uncommon. 1939, when he was committed to
Cheltenham School for Boys for
One Name Not Clear
Dr. Morgenstern said that the being beyond the control of his
former convict was committed to
Crownsville May 11, three days
after his release from the reforma-
tory, after going voluntarily to the
outpatient department of the
Phipps Clinic of the Johns Hopkins
Hospital.
Commitment papers were signed
by two physicians, one of whom
was Dr. A. Brooks Branon. Dr. Mor-
genstern said the name of the
second committing doctor was not
clear but that it appeared to read
"Dr. Eugene Unger." Medical com-
mitments do not require court
action,
Dr. Morgenstern said the com-
mitment forms were filled in with
these descriptions of the patient's
condition:
"Resentful"; "sullen"; "paranoid.
people talk about him"; "suspi-
cious"; "has a long criminal record
of burglary and robbery"; "patient
definitely a homicidal risk in my
opinion."
Declines Comment
Dr. Branon declined to comment
last night on the commitment or
release. There is no Dr. Eugene
Unger listed in the Baltimore tele-
phone directory.
Dr. Morgenstern gave this de-
scription of the patient at the in-
stitution:
"During his stay at the hospital
he was never given a sedative or
restrained. He adjusted himself to
the routine of the hospital and was
a willing worker. He never refused
any work assignments and during
his entire stay at the hospital no
pathological mental trends could
be observed.
"He was calm and composed. He
never had any arguments or alter-
cations with any other patients. He
willingly helped in the care of in-
firmary cases. He treated all with
kindness and patience showing ab-
solutely human behavior and hu-
man feeling.
"Showed No Resentment"
"He showed no resentment at his
confinement. here."
Dr. Morgenstern said the man's
release had been requested by the
"foster mother" or "former land-
lady."
"We had been in touch with the
Prisoners' Aid Association," he con-
tinued. "We had a letter from them
June 7 in which they promised us
they would participate in a release
program for him at any time. When
he left the hospital, we wrote to
them June 24 a complete descrip-
tion of our contacts with him.
"When he was admitted to
Crownsville the Prisoners' Aid As-
sociation gave a very good deserip-
Lion of how and why he
committed. When he left the re
formatory he willingly went home
to his foster mother or landlady.
He willingly went to Phipps, where
he was examined just once and
sent to us.
was
Planned To Get Job
"Before he was sent to Crowns-
wille he had planned to get a job
himself. It was only because he
came to Crownsville that he didn't
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.