IMPETUS FOR FORESTRY

Possibilities If Well Directed A
Maryland Need Neglected.

CHARGES FULL MAPLE LANDS

Interesting Address Before the
Federation of Women’s Clubs.
The Need of Conservation.

The Maryland Federation of Women’s
Clubs held a meeting yesterday at the
Hotel Belvedere. The morning session
was devoted to business, and in the
afternoon the members listened to an
address by Mr. F. W. Besley, State
Forester, on “Forestry in Maryland.”
Mr. Besley said:
“Maryland is not generally considered
a forest State, yet it has within its
borders 2,100,000 acres of woodland,
which is 33 per cent, of the total land
area of the State. This is a considerable
area, and if properly handled would
be a source of great wealth to the State.
As it is, the forests are being depleted
at an alarming rate, and unless something
is done to check this waste the
time is not far distant when Maryland
will be practically without forests.
“The forests of Maryland are of two
general types, the hardwood forests of
the western counties and the pine and
hardwood forests of the coastal plain.
The hardwood forests are composed
largely of oak, chestnut, hickory, maple,
beech, birch, ash, walnut, cherry and
other valuable species. The pine forests
are composed of loblolly pine, shortleaf
pine, pitch pine and scrub pine. The
hardwood forests are found in the
coastal plain, mixed with the pines.
“The forests of Maryland are being
depleted by fire, insects, disease and
wasteful cutting. Fire is the greatest
enemy of the forest. It destroys the
young growth, kills the trees and injures
the soil. Insects and disease also
cause great damage to the forests.
Wasteful cutting is another great
source of loss. Trees are often cut
before they are mature, and the tops
and branches are left to rot on the
ground.
“The forests of Maryland are a valuable
resource, and they should be conserved.
Forestry is the science of managing
forests so as to produce a continuous
supply of timber and other forest products.
Forestry also includes the protection
of forests from fire, insects and
disease.
“The State of Maryland has a forestry
department which is charged with the
duty of protecting and managing the
forests of the State. The forestry department
is doing a great work, but it
needs the support of the people of the
State.
“The people of Maryland can help to
conserve the forests by preventing fires,
by planting trees and by practicing
forestry on their own lands. The forests
of Maryland are a valuable resource,
and they should be conserved for the
benefit of future generations.”