IN SUBURBS AND COUNTY
Chautauqua Week At Towson Be-
gins Next Friday.

LOCAL COMMITTEE AT WORK
Orphan Boys In Confirmation Class
At Towson-Finals Start At Lu-
therville College.

Chautauqua Week at Towson will be-
zin next Friday, and an interesting pro-
gram is promised by the Chautauqua As-
sociation, assisted by the local commit-
ees. The town has been decorated with
bennants and an effort will be made to
Iraw from every section of the county
and the city to help swell the attend-
ince.

Hunt Cook, of Vicksburg, Miss., will
be the superintendent, and the program
will include the Folk Song Quintet,
Colangelo's Concert Band, a lecture by
Dr. A. E. Turner, who was superin-
tendent of the first chautauqua held
at Towson: Booth Tarkington's play,
"The Man from Home"; Mr. and Mrs.
Henry Such, violinist and accompanist;
lecture, by Montaville Flowers; May
Parker Trio. Edmund Vance Cooke, the
Glanville-Hines Company and Plan-
quette's opera, "The Chimes of Nor-
mandy."

The local committee, whose work it
is to arrange for the chautauqua. are as
follows: Executive. A. C. Crommer,
Thomas W. Ofrutt. Dr. Louis Hergen-
rather, Jr., A. D. Stebbins, William P.
Cole, Jr., Dr. J. Royston Green, Dr.
Harry S. Jarrett, Ernest C. Hatch,
Judge Frank L. Duncan, Frank I.
Wheeler and Frank G. Merceron;
George H. Stieber, Robert W. J. Par-
lett and J. Milton Green, and reception,
State Senator N. D. R. Allen, Judge
Duncan, S. Clayton Seitz. Frank Sames.
William K. Burns and George M.
Price.

Orphans In Confirmation Class.
A class of 162. including 72 boys from
St. Vincent's Male Orphan Asylum, was
confirmed yesterday afternoon at the
Catholic Church of the Immaculte, Tow-
son, of which the Rev. Philip II. Sheri-
lan is pastor, by Bishop Corrigan. In
the class were 18 adults. All the can-
lidates were instructed for their con-
irmation by Father Sheridan.

The confirmation took place at 4
'clock and was preceded by a proces-
sion of the candidates from the parish
school to the church. Bishop Corrigan
was assisted by the Rev. Peter B. Tarro,
of Notch Cliff; the Rev. Lawrence J.
McNamara, of St. Bridgid's, and the
Rev. M. A. Ryan. of the Blessed Sacra
ment Church. Bishop Corrigan preached.
The candidates received their first
communion at the 7.30 o'clock mass,
celebrated by Father Sheridan.

Bull-Wilson.
Miss Mary D. Wilson and Mr. Stan-
ley S. Bull. of Parkton, were married
Thursday night at the parsonage of the
United Brethren Church at Rayville.
The ceremony was performed in the
presence of a few friends by the Rev.
Harry E. Krone. Mr. and Mrs. Bull
are living at Parkton.

Injured At Munitions Plant.
Mrs. Elva S. Parks, of Cockeysville,
suffered the loss of two fingers Satur-
day while at work at the munitions plant
at Texas, her hand being caught in a
piece of machinery. A trained nurse
on the grounds dressed the wounds.

Mass For Cadets.
The second annual military mass for
the Catholic Cadets of Baltimore will be
held tomorrow morning in St. Joseph's
Passionist Monastery Grove, on the
Frederick road, at Irvington. The fol-
lowing churches will have their cadets
present: St. Andrew's, St. James, St.
Michael's, St. Leo's, St. Elizabeth's and
St. Martin's. The cadets will meet at
Frederick and Augusta avenues, where
they will be met by St. Joseph's Holy
Name Cadets. St. Mary's Industrial
School Band will lead the St. Joseph's
Guards.

After Lawbreaking Autoists.
Special Officer Thomas Eisenhauer,
of the Automobile Commission, and for-
merly Chief of Police of Cumberland,
Md., made a crusade yesterday against
the operators of automobiles and mo-
toreveles who failed to carry their li-
censes. As a result several persons will
appear at the ('atonsville Police Sta-
tion this morning before Justice Paken-
dorf to answer charges.

Returned To Cheltenham.
Truman Williams, colored, of Catons-
ville, an inmate of the Cheltenham
School for Colored Boys who escaped
last week, together with five other ne-
groes, was caught yesterday afternoon
in Prince George's county and returned
to the school.

Williams was committed last year to
the school charged with being implicat-
ed in the murder of Thomas Brown at
Silver Run, Carroll county.

Church Gateway Damaged By Auto
A large automobile collided with the
stone gateway at the entrance to St.
Timothy's Protestant Episcopal Church
on Ingleside avenue, Catonsville, yes-
terday and damaged one of the stone
pillars.

Russell Mercen Improved,
Russell Mercen, son of Mr. and Mrs.
Mortimer Mercen, of Catonsville, whe
was operated upon Saturday at St.
Agnes' Hospital for an affection of his
throat, was reported yesterday to be
somewhat improved.

Students Have Service.
The Rev. Dr. George P. Mains, ins, of
New York, delivered the baccalaureate
sermon yesterday morning to the gradu-
ates of the Maryland College for Women
and School of Music. The services were
held at 11 o'clock in St. Paul's Lu-
theran Church, Lutherville. An elab-
orate musical program was given by the
students.

Vesper services were held at 6 o'clock
Fon the college campus, conducted by Dr.
Gallagher. An address was delivered
before the Young Women's Christian
Association at 8 o'clock by the Rev. Dr.
Isaac J. Lansing, of Ridgewood. N. J.
The closing exercises of the sixty-third
annual commencement will be held this
evening at S o'clock in Gordon Hall.
The speakers will be the Rev. Dr. S.
Parks Cadman, of Brooklyn, N. Y., and
the Rev. Dr. George School, president
or the board of control of the college.

In And About The Churches.
The Rev. John A. Nesbitt, pastor of
Catonsville Presbyterian Church, has
returned from Atlantic City, where he
attended the sessions of the General As-
sembly of the I'resbyterian Church.

Mr. and Mrs. C. M. Bennett, of Ca-
tonsville, will entertain the members of
the "Grace Saxe" Neighborhood Bible
Class this evening at their home on
Newbury avenue.

Memorial services were held yester-
day at Jessop Methodist Episcopal
Church.

The first May procession of St. Wil-
liam's Catholic Church, Ten Hills, was
held yesterday afternoon. The pastor,
the Rev. Pasquale di Paola, had charge.

Suburban Obituary.
The funeral of Mrs. Marie Louise
Brinkmann, widow of August H. Brink-
mann, who died Friday at Oakwood,
her her country home on Summit avenue,
Catonsville, took place yesterday after-
noon. Services were conducted at the
house by the Rev. John C. Bowers, pas-
tor of Salem Lutheran Church. The
body was taken to New York, where
burial will be made today in Greenwood
Cemetery.

Charles O. L. Grinath, of Hamilton,
died Saturday morning at his home on
Batavia avenue. He was 52 years old
and is survived by his widow, who was
Miss Annie E. Hauser. The funeral
will take place tomorrow afternoon.