Judge Moylan On Cheltenham
TO THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir: The Sun
has for many years been most helpful in
promoting needed reforms in our juvenile
institutions. However, I must take issue with
your editorial of November 16. There is not
the slightest inconsistency in my report to
Governor Lane on Cheltenham and my more
recent plea for more adequate facilities and
personnel for our two State schools for the
feeble-minded.
In my report to the Governor I definitely
did not propose any patchwork of the present
Cheltenham plant. 1 urged the construction
of a school building with adequate classrooms
and vocational shops, as did the State Board
of Education in 1939. I recommended the re-
placement of the present administration
building, erected in 1872. The cost of these
and other suggested improvements, however,
would be but a fraction of the cost (the lat-
est estimate, as reported in the columns of
the Sunpapers, is $6,000,000) of buying a
new site and erecting thereon all new build-
ings.
I set forth just how many conditions which
impelled State officials in 1939, and later in
1943, to advocate the removal of the school,
no longer existed. The advantages of the pres
ent site, with its 1,230-aere farm, Including
30 acres of attractively landscaped campus
and 400 acres of woodland, along with sev-
eral new buildings erected within the past
several years at a cost of $250,000, are such
that, with the improvements suggested, the
faulty educational and disciplinary practices
that have plagued Cheltenham, for many
years can be corrected and a good training
school conducted at the present site.
These proposals are entirely consistent
with my recent request that the public sup-
port efforts of the Board of Mental Hygiene
to relieve the congestion at the Crownsville
and Rosewood schools for feeble-minded chil-
dren. Your statement, in referring to Chel-
tenham, that "kids are committed to State
schools which are jammed to the doors" is
inaccurate but leads you on to a renewed
advocacy of a new Cheltenham to relieve a
congestion there which does not exist and
simultaneously, you feel, the present Chelten-
ham plant's use for Crownsville's overflow
will ease the overcrowding at the latter in-
stitution, which does exist.
Unlike the Rosewood and Crownsville in-
stitutions for the feeble-minded, each with
large waiting lists, neither Cheltenham nor
any of our other six training schools has a
waiting list for admissions. The Cheltenham
student body has declined nearly 50 per cent,
from 413 in 1939 to 219 at present (the State
Reformatory for Males, at Breathedsville,
having been established several years ago).
The combined student bodies of all seven
training schools total less than 1,000, about 45
per cent less than the total enrollment of
1,457 at our two institutions for feeble-mind-
ed children.
Nor does it follow at all that Cheltenham,
designed and constructed as a training school
for healthy, nonfeeble minded, delinquent
boys, 11 to 16 years of age, would be suitable
or adapted to a school for the feeble-minded,
or to an institution for "defective delin-
quents." The facilities required, the therapies
and techniques of treatment needed, and the
whole setup of these two types of schools are
entirely different.
One may as well argue that the Maryland
Training School for Boys should be moved
to a new location in order to relieve conges.
tion at the Rosewood School for the Feeble-
Minded, or that our Public School for Phys-
ically Handicapped Children, in Baltimore
city, could just as well be operated at an
abandoned school building originally designed
and used as a school for normal children.
The simplest and soundest way to start re-
lieving the current congestion in our schools
for feeble-minded children is found in the
plan considered by the Board of Mental Hy-
giene from time to time of removing from
Rosewood several hundred adults, divorcing
the management of the Crownsville School
for the Feeble-minded from that of the
Crownsville State Hospital, and the operation
of both institutions as schools for children.
The number of adults there now is larger than
the combined waiting lists of both schools.
Similarly, when the need of a separate insti-
tution for "defective delinquents" is met (ac-
tually two institutions would be required if
the color line is adhered to), further relief
would be afforded.
CHARLES E. MOYLAN,
Judge, Supreme Bench
of Baltimore City.
Baltimore, Nov. 19.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.