the fact remains that the State's plan for
doing this job at a new institution would,
if carried out, have made Cheltenham avail-
able for the care of feeble-minded children
and other defectives. It would have killed
two birds with one stone.
Judge Moylan now argues that the right
way to increase these facilities is to do some-
thing about Crownsville and Rosewood. That
is one way. But it is a method still in the
realm of mere discussion, whereas the plan
for Cheltenham that has now been aban-
doned was a formal commitment to attack
the problem from a quite different angle.
So far as the feeble-minded and other
defectives are concerned, we are right back
where we were before the State adopted its
plan for Cheltenham.
The Cheltenham Plan
Had A Double Purpose.
Recently, Judge Charles E. Moylan com-
mitted a feeble-minded Negro boy, aged 12,
to Crownsville, and in doing so took occasion
to point out the State's distressing shortage
of facilities for the care of feeble-minded
children. Commenting, on this, The Sun
pointed out a seeming inconsistency between
Judge Moylan's concern for these inadequate
facilities and his part in the abandonment
of a State policy which was intended, in
part, to expand those facilities.
Elsewhere on this page we print a reply
from Judge Moylan in which he denies any
inconsistency and further elaborates his
position.
_ Judge Moylan's intense preoccupation with
the causes and treatment of juvenile delin-
quency is too well known to require com-
ment. Whatever he says on this and the
related question of the care of feeble-minded
children is the fruit of much thought and
labor. Judge Moylan and The Sun, further-
more, are as one in agreeing that the State's
present custodial facilities for children of
these distinct but related groups are inade-
quate. Nevertheless, The Sun's point cannot;
very well be explained away.
Here is the situation:
Conditions at the Cheltenham School for
years were acutely unsatisfactory. It was
used as a kind of catchall for Negro prob-
lem children: normal delinquents, feeble-
minded, psychotic, epileptic and physically
handicapped were lumped together. As a
result, the normal delinquents were not
receiving the sort of training calculated to
restore them as useful members of society,
and the defectives were not receiving proper
custodial care.
The situation came to a head in 1943 with
the publication of the report of the Maryland
Commission on Juvenile Delinquency. The
commission pointed out that the situation at
Cheltenham was hopeless so long as the
school was being used for both normal
delinquents and defectives. It recommended
that Cheltenham be used as an institution
for one of these groups, and that a separate
institution be established for the other.
It added:
In our opinion, [Cheltenham] would be
better adapted for trainable defectives than
for normal delinquent boys.
Out of this came a definite State program,
which was (1) to build a completely new
institution for normal delinquent Negro boys
nearer to Baltimore city; and (2) to give
over Cheltenham itself to the custody and
training of defectives. That was settled State
policy, approved by the Legislature.
But when Governor Lane came into office
that policy was quietly abandoned. The Sun
inquired as to the reasons for its abandon-
ment. These were stated in a report to Gov.
ernor Lane by Judge Moylan, a report to
which he refers in his letter. Judge Moylan
pointed out in his report that conditions had
greatly improved at Cheltenham, that it was
no longer overcrowded, and that it was doing
an adequate job in the training of delinquent
children. But in his report Judge Moylan said
not one word about the other half of the
State's program the plan to convert the
present Cheltenham into an institution for
feeble-minded and other defective children.
Grant that Cheltenham may now be doing
an adequate job with normal delinquents:
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.