80 Yale Gridders
troubled athletic situation, today
recommended-another committee.
The board's five-man committee
was set up to study two contra-
Report To Hickman
New Haven, Conn., Apell 12 (P)
tietory reports submitted by stud
More than 80 candidates for thesent and faculty committees. The
first Yale football team under Head student report recommended dis-
Coach Herman Hickman reported missal of Athletic Director James
to him today for the opening of Hagan. A faculty committee re
port suggested Hagan be retained
spring practice.
and that football coach Walter Mil-
ligan he fired.
The board today recommended
that a three-man standing commit-
Hickman told the footballers, led
by Capt, Bill Conway, there was
much work to be done and the Blue
would point for one game at a time tee of trustees be appointed to
next fall, starting with Brown on adjudicate all matters of dispute
in the athletic setup. It said it
September 25.
would be the responsibility of the
Intermittent rains left the ground new committee and univeristy au-
soggy, but it didn't keep Hickman, thorities to pass on the qualifica-
developer of the Army's famed tions of the director of athletics
lines, from the tough program he
had planned in advance for the
boys. It included some rough work
in the front wall and backfield.
and the coaching staffs.
Floyd Rose, chairman of the
board committee, refused to com-
ment on the future of Ilagan or
Milligan.
Hickman, who was named Yale's
Pitt's dismal football season, re-
coach last month, plans to employ sulting in a single victory, resulted
the T-formation, a system under in the numerous committee in-
which the Blue operated during the vestigations and reports.
tenure of Howie Odell.
Pitt Sports Situation
Wins English Race
Cheltenham, England, April 12
(AP)-Irish-bred Lucky Number.
Reviewed By Board owned by Paul Mellon, today won
the 3-mile Holman Cup Steeple
Pittsburgh, April 12 (AP)-A spe-chase. He beat Bomber Command
cial committee of the University of by three fourths of a length and
Pittsburgh Board of Trustees, ap-paid 9 to 2. There were nine
pointed to review the school's runners,