Nothing New
At Cheltenham
The new board of managers at Cheltenham
School for Boys has made its first report
to Governor Lane. This report echoes
the recommendations of nearly every board
and special commission in the past ten years
that has studied the chronically unsatisfac-
tory situation at Maryland's lone reforma-
tory school for colored boys. The new board,
like the old ones, urges that Cheltenham
be rebuilt at a site closer to Baltimore.
Plans regarding Cheltenham have com-
pleted a full circle since 1943. That was
the year that the General Assembly, on the
advice of the Maryland Commission on
Juvenile Delinquency, voted to build a new
institution for normal delinquent Negro
boys nearer to Baltimore city and to utilize
the old school at Cheltenham for mentally
defective Negro boys. Money for the new
school was set aside in Governor O'Conor's
postwar construction fund.
Governor Lane scrapped the plans for a
new Cheltenham last year and shifted the
money earmarked for its construction into
the general funds of the State, That left
Cheltenham in the advanced state of de-
terioration that Governor Lane found so
deplorable when he made a surprise visit
to the institution last June. Then, in Octo-
ber, the State Board of Public Works ap-
proved an "emergency" expenditure of $128,-
300 to patch up the old school. The action
was taken after Governor Lane read a report
• showing that there was some improvement
in the operation of Cheltenham since Cal.
vin L. Kiah had taken charge.
Mr. Kiah, whose work during six months
at Cheltenham had been considered proof
that the old school could still be rehabilitat.
ed, was abruptly dismissed last month. Chel.
tenham at this point has neither a superin-
tendent nor the means to train properly the
boys in its custody. The new all-Negro
board of managers is. impressed by the hope-
lessness of attempting to plan for the future
on the basis of the present site and facilities
at Cheltenham and urges a return to the
1943 plans for a modern school. The decision
is largely in the hands of Governor Lane,
who should see by now that five years of
vacillating plans and "emergency" programs
have done nothing to benefit Choltenham.
What the State needs is a long-range pro-
gram for Cheltenham that will give its
managers a permanent basis for their oper-
ations.