IMPROVEMENT
UNIT IS ACTIVE
State's New Department Has
Building Program Role
Maryland's new Department of
Public Improvements, one of the
smallest of the State departments
with a prospective staff of six and
an annual budget of $38,455, al
ready is playing an integral part
in the State's large building pro-
gram.
This program, according to John
B. Funk, chief engineer and head
of the department, amounts to
more than $10,000,000 a year and
embraces alt State construction
and public works, including the
new Federal-aid hospital program.
It does not, however, include the
State roads program.
Many Consultations Held
Already the department, which
at present has only a skeleton staff
at its offices at 210 East Lexington
street, has held many consultations
with architects, engineers and the
management of various State in.
= stitutions and departments to de-
termine their building require-
meints and preliminary design.
Through Mr. Funk it has begun
advising the Board of Public Works
on projects being prepared or
ready for construction and on the
appointment of architects for some
of the institutions.
It is expected that the depart-
ment will fill its staff next month.
When complete, it will have, be-
sides the chief engineer, an archi-
tect, a mechanical-electrical engi-
neer, a structural engineer, a
chief building Inspector and a
stenographer-secretary.
Mr. Funk said the Maryland
chapter of the American Institute
of Architects and the Joint Engi
neering Council had been helpful
in the solution of many of the
problems facing the establishment
of the department.
Examining Units Set Up
They have set up two committees
to examine all applicants for staff
positions, he explained.
Serving on the architectural ex.
amining committee are James R.
Edmunds, former national presi
dent of the American Institute of
Architects, T. Worth Jamison, Jr.,
president of the local chapter of
the A.I.A., and Henry. P. Hopkins,
vice-president of the local chapter.
Members of the engineering ex-
amining committee are A. J. Pen-
niman, utility engineer; Ezra B.
Whitman, former national presi-
dent of the American Society of
Civil Engineers, and Roy II. Ritter,
structural engineer.
College Diploma Required.
All members of the engineering
and architectural staff will be col-
lege graduates in engineering or
architecture and registered engi.
neers or architects.
A minimum of
ten years' experience will be re-
quired for the architects and a
minimum of five for the engineers.
Although the department has
operated on a restricted basis for
only six weeks, it is sald to have
already begun to bring about
changes in State building proce-
dure and is working toward effec-
tive State construction economy..
It reported to the Board of Pub-
lic Works, for example, that a study result of a new function it agreed barracks, Department of Motor
and appraisal of the United States to take over in regard to the Fed- Vehicles, Maryland Reformatory
Naval Base at Solomons, Md., eral-aid hospital program,
for Women and St. Marys Female
showed that the State could obtain One condition of the State's Seminary.
building materials with a net value eligibility to receive approximately
of $100,000 if the base were ac- $870,000 annually in Federal ald
quired by the State at an offer not for hospital construction in Mary-
exceeding $5,000.
land is the establishment of a
The Board of Public Works au- project control section to approve
thorized the Board of Natural Re- all drawings and specifications and
sources to begin negotiations for to inspect the work during its
the base with the Navy.
progress.
Again, in the case of the pro- The State appropriated $42,100
posed barn at the Eastern Shore for the setting up of such a de-
State Hospital, the department rec-partment; however, the Depart-
ommended changes in design and ment of Public Improvements
deferrable omissions which report-agreed to take over this function.
edly will result in a saving of H. G. Fritz has been named chief
$26,639.00.
of the division of hospital construc-
Building Report Made
thon and administration and will be
The department also has com-in charge of approving designs and
pleted a report on building condi- construction.
tions at the Cheltenham School for Other projects and departments
Boys and has made recommenda- which already have come within
tions for improvement of the the work of the Department of
institution both of which will be Public Improvement, include the
presented to the Board of Public State teachers' colleges, Maryland
Works in the near future.
Training School for Boys, Morgan
The department will save the State College, House of Correction,
state approximately $20,000 per State Department of Health, Deer's
year, according to Mr. Funk, as the Head State Hospital, State police

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.