Mr. Kahl Promises
To Keep The Public Informed
The announcement by Mr. Christian H. |
Kahl, president of the Board of Commission-
ers of Baltimore county, that the public will
be kept fully informed of all the details in
the investigation of the Baltimore County
Police Department should be well received
by the residents of Baltimore county. Corrup-
tion, abuse of authority or favoritism in a
law-enforcing agency are things that no
healthy community will stand for.
Almost five months have passed since the
start of the inquiry into the county's police
department. During that time the public has
been told little more than that three cases in
which traffic tickets were "fixed" have been
uncovered, that seven members of the police
department have been either demoted, fined
or transferred and that a clerk to a police
magistrate has been dismissed. Five months
of investigation is a lot of investigation to
produce these results.
However, the inquiry is not over. And the
residents of Baltimore county now have Mr.
Kahl's announcement that the public will be
kept informed. A note of that announcement
will be filed for future reference by those
interested in protecting Baltimore county's
welfare.
One Way Of Learning
How To Swim
:
There has never, within the memory of
the oldest inhabitant, been any good news
about the Cheltenham School for-Boys. Its
history has been a sordid account of neglect,
inadequate facilities and mismanagement.
For awhile it looked as though Chelten-
ham might be given a fresh start, beginning
from the ground up with a new and properly
Jocated building. There was provision for
such a building in Governor O'Conor's.post-
war construction program. But the Chelten-
ham project was crossed off the list by
Governor Lane, and since then we have had
a resumption of the usual sordid news.
Now the Cheltenham board of managers
has had to appoint a new superintendent for
the institution, Mr. Calvin L. Kiah. The most
experienced superintendent obtainable, on
going to Cheltenham, would find most of
the cards stacked against him. For all we
know, Mr. Kiah may turn out to be just the
man whom Cheltenham needs. The fact re-
mains that the board has gone out of its
way to state that Mr. Kiah has had no previ-
ous "institutional experience." The board
has put him on a six-month probationary
appointment.
It is said that one way to learn how to
swim is to be tossed overboard-a harsh
method, but effective. Mr. Kiah is being
tossed overboard into just about the deepest
and most treacherous institutional waters in
these parts.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.