Judge Moylan Argued
"Against Himself
In committing a feeble-minded Negro boy,
aged 12, to Crownsville for vandalism, Judge
Charles E. Moylan declared that juvenile au-
sthorities cannot afford to defer commitments
in such cases in spite of the large waiting
lists for admission to State institutions.
Judge Moylan said that many of the recent
cts of vandalism were done by feeble-mind-
ed youngsters, awaiting entrance to State
schools. He also cited two cases of homicide
by children whose commitments as feeble-
minded patients had been postponed. "Con-
gestion or no congestion," the judge said,
the court could not "legally commit children
to'a waiting list."
Judge Moylan has pointed up the dis-
tressing shortage of facilities for the care of
delinquent Negro children, but he has failed
to recall that there was a sound plan in the
works for the partial elimination of that
shortage. The General Assembly in 1943
passed the necessary laws to enable the
State to build a new training school for de-
linquent Negro boys and to keep the present
school at Cheltenham for mentally defec-
tive colored children. The money for the new
school was earmarked in Governor O'Conor's
Postwar construction fund. The plan was
later shelved by Governor Lane, who wiped
But the funds set aside for the purpose.
- to When interest in a new Cheltenham school
was revived once again this fall, it was none
other than Judge Moylan who declared in a
special report to the Governor that there
was no need to spend $3,400,000 for the pur-
chase of a new site and buildings for the
colored training school. Judge Moylan told
the Governor that the present school could
the patched up, and so it could. But no
amount of patching up will solve the problem
of what is to be done with kids who are com-
mitted to State schools which are already
jammed to the doors. If, as Judge Moylan
says, our juvenile authorities cannot afford
to defer commitments of feeble-minded van-
dals, then it must follow that the State can-
not afford to defer the enlargement of our
facilities to handle those vandals. Either the
Judge is wrong in saying that feeble-minded
children should be put away for safekeeping
For he is wrong in saying that we do not
need a new school for colored delinquents.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.