Judge Moylan Sees No Need
For New Cheltenham Site
There is no need to spend $3,400, foutdoor program of interscholastic
000 for the purchase of a new site and intramural athletics and recre
and buildings for the Cheltenham ation could be started immediately
School for Colored Boys, Judge at practically no cost.
Charles E. Moylan declared in a
special report to Governor Lane 6. A survey by a farm expert
yesterday.
from the University of Maryland
Asserting that needed improve-to determine the possibilities of
ments could be started immediately increased food production, the
"at little or no cost" at the present need of farm machinery replace-
site, Judge Moylan listed eight sugment and more modern agricultur-
gestions for overcoming present ob- at methods. The judge jointed out
stacles at the institution.
that the arable farm land at Chel-
There has been considerable dis- tenham is 800 acres, compared to
cussion in recent years about the
only 720 acres at the six other
relocation and building of a new training schools in the State. This
Cheltenham Settool, some advocates
of a new school contending that
the institution should be located
in Baltimore city. However, no posi-
tive action ever has been taken,
although several sites for the new
school were proposed.
Target Of Criticism
Judge Moylan's report on Chel
tenham, which in recent years has
been the target of public criticism
because of conditions there, fol.
lowed a request from the Governor
for the judge to express his ideas
and opinions about the school.
The judge's recommendations
were:
}})
fact, the judge declared, should be
taken into consideration by the
advocates of a new school.
Punishment Pules
7. An enrichment of the school's
curriculum and extracurricular ac
tivities to improve student morale
and help check the number of run-
שית
aways, "Insistence by the
superintendent that present insti
tution rates providing that corporal
punishment shall be inflicted only
with his authority and in his
presence he observed rigidly, wilt
correct such disciplinary abuses
and seandals as have plagued the
school in recent years," the judge
said.
8. Employment of a full-time
1. Pending completion of
school building for classrooms and
shops, use of a building now used
by maintenance workers for the chaplain to assure the redirection of
training of about 30 hoys in car- The boys' criminal tendencies and
pentering. The judge said to assure the return of the youths
sawmill has been in the school's to the community as good citizens.
500 acres of woodland for ten More stress must be placed on
years, and there is much market character building, spiritual train-
able, uncut timber there. This sup- ing and good citizenship. Two hours
ply would answer a complaint that a week in Sunday school is not
there is not enough lumber for enough, the judge asserted.
needed repairs and for training
bays in wooderaft and manual arts,
the judge said.
Music Teacher Suggested
2. Allocation of an additional
Some Improvements
Earlier in his report, Judge aloy
lan discussed a 1939 report in
which the State Department of
Education cited the fundamenta
$1,000 to employ a music teacher causes of the school's failure.
at a salary of $2,500 a year to train Taking up the department's criti
a band and drum and bugle corps, cism that the school is used as a
using a complete set of musical "dumping ground for morous
instruments and uniforms donated idiots, feeble-minded, psychotic
to the school by civic or veteran misfits, neglected and dependent
organizations. Judge Moyfan de children," Judge Moylan said this
clared the present available salary condition has been met. Today, he
of $1,500 for a music teacher is said, there are hut four boys at
inadequate and there has been no the school with an L.Q. of less than
music instructor since the last 65, or less than two per cent of the
teacher quit because of ill-health. enrollment.
3. Make the Boy Scout program As to the department's assertion
available to at least 100 boys at the that Cheltenham was overcrowded,
school. A troop started at his sug- Judge Moylan pointed out that the
gestion three years ago has never student body has declined nearly
Increased beyond eighteen mem-50 per cent since 1939. Then, he
bers, Judge Moylan said, despite said, the enrollment was 413 and
The 500 acres of woodland suitable now it is 219. The average school
For scouting and camping programs, class now averages about 18 10 20
The judge said at no cost, the sery- boys, the judge said, adding: “Balli-
ees of the Southern Maryland more public schools. would cer-
seout commissioner could be en-tainly welcome such lack of over-
Listed.
Athletic Program
crowding."
The 1939 report also eritcized
4. To obviate the stigma of the the low salary scale and declared
name "Cheltenham." the name that competent teachers could not
should be changed at the next ses- be attracted to the school, Judge
sion of the General Assembly "as Moylan pointed out that teachers
a break for its boys as they return who a few years ago earned from
to the community and seek jobs," $800 to $1,200 a year at Chelten-
the judge stated.
ham now receive from $2,500
5. A better organized indoor and to $3,125.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
i