The Cost Of A New Cheltenham
TO THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir: Your con-
roversy with Judge Moylan relative to the
proposal to establish a new training school for
colored boys to take the place of Chelten-
nam at an estimated cost of $6,000,000 is
perplexing.
1
-Based upon the present population of 219
nmates at Cheltenham (which may decline
with more adequate facilities for feeble-
minded children elsewhere), the extravagant
and ill-considered program which you severe-
My criticize Governor, Lane and Judge Moylan
for discarding would cost the State $27,400
to provide a home for each of its delinquent
colored boys.
If the State is going to be so generous as
to provide such a luxurious home for each de-
linquent colored boy, then perhaps all of us
should, become delinquent colored boys, for
but few of our citizens can afford such ex-
pensive living quarters.
Governor Lane and Judge Moylan are en-
titled to the thanks of the community for
scuttling this costly scheme.
Baltimore, Nov. 22. WILLIS R. JONES.
!
The Sun has never advocated building a
new training school for colored boys to take
the place of Cheltenham for $6,000,000-or
for any other specific figure. Back in 1943, the
State Legislature decided to proceed with
such an institution, but did not appropriate
funds nor specify the amount to be spent-
reasonably enough, since plans had not been
drawn. Toward the end of 1943 a tentative
figure of $1,500,000 was proposed for this
project. This figure was not far out of line
with the figure of $1,253,691 for the Maryland
Training School For (White) Boys-and the
present Cheltenham would have remained
available as a new institution for the feeble-
minded and other defective children. Still
nothing was done. By 1945, the State Planning
Commission estimated that the cost of such
an institution would be around $2,424,000. By
July of this year, in the peak of a building
boom and runaway building costs, the figure
of $4,486,000 emerged. Mr. Jones uses the
figure of $6,000,000, and his reference to
luxurious homes for delinquents are mere
debating points.-THE EDITOR.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.