REPORT IS ASKED
ON CHELTENHAM
Lane Calls For Complete Data;
Pledges Action
Announcing that he has asked for
a "full report" on conditions at
Cheltenham School, Governor Lane
yesterday asserted "there is no jus-
tifiable reason why conditions such
as have been reported to me should
prevail at this State-operated cor-
rectional institution."
The Governor said in a statement
that conditions "in several of the
State's institutions have been
brought to my attention within the
last few days" and that he intended
"to take prompt action."
Request Made Of Dr. Riley
In addition to studying the situa-
tion at Cheltenham, the Governor
stated he had requested Dr. Robert
H. Riley. director of the State
(Continued on Page 16, Column 1)
CHELTENHAM
REPORT ASKED
Lane Calls For Complete Data;
Pledges Action
(Continued from Page 28)
Health Department, to confer with
leading surgeons in regard to re-
establishing surgical treatment of
tuberculous patients at the State's
Mount Wilson Sanatorium.
He also asked Dr. Riley to sug-
gest "a general overall program
under which Maryland can do some-
thing to combat the alarmingly
high incidence of tuberculosis
in the State."
...
Joint Meeting Called
Governor Lane said he had
called a joint meeting of the Board
of Public Welfare, which has juris-
diction over all the State's training
schools, and the board of managers
of the Cheltenham School for the
purpose of preparing "a full report
on the difficulties" under which the
institution is operating, "with ap-
propriate recommendations for cor-
rective measures."
He added that "I likewise am
having prepared a report by those
in charge of the active administra-
tion of the institution."
The Governor maintained there
is "the necessity for an immediate
betterment of general conditions"
at Cheltenham, "which has a long
and drab institutional history, but
which I am informed has been im-
proved somewhat in the recent
past.
"Must Be Deferred"
1
۱
"Because of the present unfa-
vorable outlook in the construction
field, and related difficulties, the
contemplated erection of a new in-
stitution to replace the present
Cheltenham must of necessity belt
However, there is t
deferred.
no reason why Cheltenham cannot
be operated
as a reasonably!
efficient, clean and orderly instit
tution."
An immediate subject of com-
plaint, according to the Governor, superintendent of the institution
was "a breakdown in the water about two years, would make no
system and the need for a period comment on the Governor's state-
of 35 days to get along with an ment.
auxiliary supply. insufficient
10 meet general requirements."
In regard to the Mount Wilson
The Governor said this situation Sanatorium, the Governor said that
had been corrected.
"for the last few years, despite the
•
Thomas B. Sprague, of Balti- high incidence of the tuberculosis
more, who is chairman of the insti- death rate in Maryland, the sur-
tution's board of managers, said he gical unit has been, closed."
did not know any specific condi- 40 Operations A Month
tions which might have been com- "Before the closing of the unit,
plained of to the Governor.
the statement set forth, "an aver-
The institution had "a hard time" age of 40 operations per month
recently, when its water supply had been performed by some of
broke down, Mr. Sprague said. the State's outstanding surgeons
Parts had to be manufactured for for the relief and rehabilitation of
it, he said, and for 35 days the sufferers from this disease.
school had to depend on an auxil- "I am informed that this lapse
iary pump, which was not big in surgical methods of treatment
enough for the job.
was brought about by a shortage in
Help Situation A Factor nursing help, but I am determined
The school, which is near Brandy- andy. that it is to be resumed and with-
wine, has an average population of out further delay."
from 22 5to 250 boys between 9 and
16 sent there from juvenile courts.
The institution has between 65
and 75 employés, and Mr. Sprague
said there had been considerable
trouble in recent years getting com-
petent help.
H. P. Harris, who has been acting