A Thankless Task
For Mr. Kiah
We certainly wish the very best to Mr.
Calvin L. Kiah, who is slated to become the
new head of the Cheltenham School for
Boys. But any number of good wishes will
do Mr. Kiah little good, for he is up against
an almost impossible task: making a success
of the present Cheltenham.
For one thing, Mr. Kiah will, in effect, be
asked to run not one but two schools at
Cheltenham: one for mentally defective
Negro boys, the other for delinquent Negro
boys. Surely it is impossible to expect a man
to devise and carry out parallel and simul-
taneous programs for delinquents and men-
tal defectives living together. The delin-
quents must be trained to resume produc-
tive life outside; the mental cases can only
hamper that training. On the other hand,
the kind of training needed by mental defec-
tives can be very had medicine for the de-
linquents. And the influence of one group
on the other from their life in common can
hardly work to the betterment of either.
Mr. Kiah will be faced, too, with the prob-
lem of providing occupational training for
the delinquents at a school located in the
country, far from shops or other trained
personnel. He will be asked to refit many
of the delinquent boys for urban life with-
out a fair chance of teaching them city
techniques. Without these, the boys will
be further handicapped in readjusting to
normal society.
Quite clearly, another school in addition to
Cheltenham for delinquent boys must be
built: the new school that Governor Lane
removed from the State budget last spring.
Such improvements as can be made at Chel-
tenham are all to the good; it isn't yet in a
position to perform either of its purposes
adequately or hopefully. But all the im
provements at Cheltenham will not remove
the underlying need for another school for
Negro boys. This has been long recognized;
the plans for it long held in abeyance. It is,
indeed, a little sad that at this point a new
superintendent can have no better oppor-
tunity for doing his best for either class of
Negro boys confined at Cheltenham. Mr.
Kiah has a tough job on his hands a job he
won't really be able to perform until the
Governor and the other members of the
Board of Public Works have done theirs.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.