The Cheltenham Mess
And A Broken Promise
Governor Lane will have to demonstrate
his fanciest political footwork to sidestep
a charge that he ſumbled an opportunity
to correct the wretched conditions that exist
at the Cheltenham School for Colored Boys.
Cheltenham has been a public disgrace for
twenty years. Repeated grand jury investiga-
tions have found its physical equipment
'deplorable," its morale "bad" and its dis-
cipline "nonexistent." Perhaps worst of all,
for an institution of correction, it violates all
the rules of child training by crowding to-
gether both disciplinary cases, which will re-
spond to a rehabilitation program, and men-
tally defective youngsters, which require
permanent custodial care.
What had the State planned to do about
Cheltenham? The State, under Governor
O'Conor's administration, decided to do the
only thing that could be done for Chelten-
ham-build a new training school for de-
linquent (not feeble-minded) Negro boys
and keep the present institution as a home
for mentally defective Negro boys. The
General Assembly in 1943 passed the neces-
sary laws to carry the plan into effect. The
money was carmarked in Governor O'Conor's
Postwar Construction Fund. Indeed, the re-
placement of Cheltenham by a new and ade-
quate institution was a matter of formal
public policy, with a high postwar priority.
But what did Governor Lane do about
Cheltenham? He shelved the plans for a new
school and wiped out the funds set aside for
the purpose. He fixed it so that nothing of
permanent value could be done to improve
Cheltenham, because the present setup is
beyond help. And now he has put himself in
the position of being an innocent bystander
by announcing that he has asked for a "full
report" on conditions at Cheltenham and
declaring that "there is no justifiable reason
why conditions such as have been reported
to me should prevail at this State-operated
correctional institution."
There is every reason, albeit unjustifiable,
for the conditions prevailing at Cheltenham,
Any additional "reports" will only repeat
what was said as far back as 1934, when the
executive director of the Child Welfare
League of America reported that Chelten-
ham was among the worst reform schools in
this country.
Cheltenham has no facilities for an ade-
quate training program. It is so far in the
country that it is impossible to get an ade-
quate staff to work there. The buildings are
designed in a way that defeats their purpose,
and delinquent children are still thrown in
with feeble-minded ones. Any money spent
in trying to patch up the present institution
is money wasted. What the State needs is the
new training school which it was promised.
It is now up to Governor Lane to reinstate
the funds previously set aside for that
purpose.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.