Late Starters' Course In Care Of Children
SUPERFICIALLY, the class being
held at 311 St. Paul place resembled many
of the evening parent-education classes con-
slucted by the department of adult educa.
tion. There were six mothers and one father
present all neatly dressed persons who lis
tened intently to the instructor, a motherly
looking woman.
The meeting was slow in starting, but since
this was the opening of a new and unusual
course, it was natural that there should be
confusion about where to go, whom to see,
what was going to happen.
Back of the course is the Baltimore Youth
Advisory Board, an alert and intelligent group
of students, who last spring proposed that a
school for parents of young delinquents be
set up in Baltimore as a further measure in
the campaign against juvenile delinquency.
Like many other proposals, this was "studied
by city authorities" for several months. Un-
like the majority of such proposals, it has
become an actuality.
Slow To Warm Up
"Learning for Living" was announced as
the topic of the first meeting and under this
heading, the teacher offered suggestions, with
examples, on "fHow to Train Your Child."
For about half an hour sho talked in a down.
to-carth manner about children in relation
to planning, patience, co-operation, punish.
ment and humor, frequently asking for
comments and questions. But the parents re-
mained cold and quiet.
"Let's express ourselves," she would say,
but her audience was unresponsive. The pe
culiar circumstances of their attendance at
the course prevented them from being natural
and relaxed people, and tongue-tied them,
Finally, in answer to the repeated ques-
tion-"What makes a happy family?"-one
mother meekly asked:
"Could it be love?"
Of San Francisco Origin
With these words, the chill left the barren
classroom. The first of a series of eight classes
for parents of delinquent children in Balti-
more seemed to have a good chance of be-
conting more than an empty talk. The teacher.
berself a mother of two sons, and the parents
were reaching an understanding.
Members of the Youth Advisory Board do
not take credit for this plan. explaining the
BY DIANA GORDON
they heard of a similar school in San Fran-
cisco and thought the idea worth trans-
planting.
"Despite the recently announced decrease
in juvenile delinquency," says N. Ellsworth
Bunce, Jr., president of the board, "we think
that there is enough delinquency in the city
to call for further measures. We've tried
things like reks and sports, and while they've
done good, they haven't been enough."
The students feel that the course's merit
is that it will reach parents of delinquents.
Points Out Parents' Mistake
"Too often the blame for delinquency has
been placed on the children when it properly
belongs on the parents." Pat Maguire, of
Notre Dame School of Maryland, comments.
Charles Dunzee, a student at Douglass Ifigh
School, likewise feels that the fault is often
with the elders.
"One of the biggest mistakes that parents
make," he says, "is refusing to admit that
a teenage person is no longer a child and
can't be restricted to a child's hours and
activities."
When parents take the course, they will
be more careful to see that younger children,
if any, don't get into trouble, reason two
Girls' Latin School pupils. Gail Phillips, of
3808 Tudor Arms avenue, and Nancy Hanna,
of 219 Woodlawn road.
While the board members display natural
youthful elation at the adoption of their pro-
posal, they regret that attendance at the
course has not been made compulsory. Be-
cause enrollment is voluntary, they predict
that many parents to whom the course would
be most beneficial will not attend.
Judge Moylan Explains
The reason for not making attendance com.
pulsory is explained by Judge Charles E.
Moylan, of the Circuit Court of Baltimore,
division for juvenile causes. After he had
received the board's resolution for the estab;
lishment of such a school last spring, he
studied the setup of the San Francisco school
and similar projects elsewhere with Thomas
A. Van Sant, director of the department of
adult education, and Mrs. Sarah W. Davis,
superintendent of the department's parent-
education classes. They agreed, Judge Moylan
says, that the school would fill a vital need
here if:
"First, it would he conducted by trained and
experienced teachers in the field of parent
education and not made, as the San Francisco
school is, a springboard for lectures by law
enforcement officers and other public officials.
We favored a sounder and more conservative
approach to the need.
"Second, that the benefits of the course
might well depend upon making it available
to those parents whose children have had
problems and have had brushes with the law
who can be prevailed upon to seek the help
the course will offer. In this fashion, no
parent will regard his attendance as involving
any stigma."
Discovered Uujust Condition
The function of the court, the judge con-
tinues, has been to furnish the enrollment,
which has been done by him and the court's
staff of probation officers: Bernard M. Mc-
Dermott, Mrs. Emma Quinlin and Mrs. John
2. Sanford. The course will run for eight
weeks, with classes Tuesday nights for white
parents and Wednesday nights for colored
parents.
As evidence of the need for such a school,
Judge Moylan tells how he talked with the
supervisor of every training school in the
State during the summer, asking why certain
boys and girls were being held for periods
longer than two years.
"At Cheltenham School for Boys," he re-
marks. "the acting director, H. L. Harris, re-
ported that 25 boys had earned their return
to the community and would have been
paroled if there had been adequate and
proper homes to which to return them. This
condition seemed grossly unfair to the boys,
whose rehabilitation had been vouched for
if a proper placement back in the community
could be effected.
Talked With Many Parents
"I sent for the 25 parents or sets of parents
and talked with them about their children,
their failure to visit them, to write to them,
and to improve conditions in their homes."
Judge Moylan says that every parent in
this group said he or she would start imme-
diately to overcome the faults pointed out to
them. They all enrolled in the parent-educa-
tion classes.