would cost $6,000,000 to build a new school
at a new site.
A saving of $3,500,000 would be welcome.
But the members of the Board of Public
Works, and especially the Governor, had bet-
ter not forget that the public has long been
aroused by the inadequate and disgraceful
school plant at Cheltenham. The school has
been the subject of constant criticism. There
have been repeated demands for improve-
ments. The public will not be satisfied with
a halfhearted attack on the long-standing
Cheltenham mess.
A New Twist In
Plans For Cheltenham
The announcement that the State Board
of Public Works has authorized the expendi
ture of $128,300 on capital improvements at
the Cheltenham School for Boys will come
as a surprise to many people. It was gener-
ally understood-in fact, it was the official
State opinion-that the only answer to the
Cheltenham problem was the construction
of a new school at a new site. The State
had adopted a program in line with that
opinion.
True, the specific program was discarded
early this year by Governor Lane. The funds
which had been earmarked for the new
school were withdrawn and no new funds
were made available in the bond issue bill
approved at the recent session of the Gen-
eral Assembly. But there was no indication
of a change in the opinion that a new school
should be built. Now comes the authoriza-
tion for the work at the present site. The
amount involved is not very large, but it is
too large an amount to invest in any make-
shift, too large to invest in what might be
called temporary appeasement of critics of
the Negro institution.
It is not unreasonable to assume from the
board's action that the plan to build a new
school at a new site is slated for discard.
Here it should be noted that the board has
before it a proposal to spend $2,550,000 at
the present location on a general moderniza-
tion and expansion program. This proposed
program would save the State a relatively
large sum; it has been estimated that it
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.