Are The Plans For Cheltenham
Being Snarled Up Again?
1 Are the plans to build a new Cheltenham
School for juvenile delinquent Negroes about
to be snarled up again?
On paper, the present plan is to build a
wholly new school on a site near Baltimore
and to turn over the present plant in Prince
Georges county to the Board of Mental
Hygiene for the care of mentally defective
Negro youths. The idea is that a new insti-
-tution close to Baltimore could be more
readily visited by parents, would be in a
better position to make arrangements for
employment and training with urban indus-
tries, and would have less difficulty in at-
tracting a staff.
But this plan is encountering obstacles.
The State has been unable so far to acquire a
suitable site; and the Board of Mental Hy-
giene appears distinctly cool to the proposal
that it take over the old institution. Here and
there the question is being heard: Why not
rebuild on the present site?
Certain arguments for rebuilding on the
present site are plausible. The site com-
prises 1,200 acres, and agricultural labor fits
well into the training program of any such
institution. The property could easily be
linked with Baltimore or Washington by bus.
And, being farther from the city, such a
location discourages in some degree the
inevitable runaway boys.
Thus, there are plausible arguments on
both sides-for building the new institution
near Baltimore or for building it on the
present site. This is the kind of decision on
which most people will accept the judgment
of those State officials who will be held re-
sponsible for the successful operation of the
school. But one point ought to be made
abundantly clear. This is the absolute neces-
sity for a new Cheltenham School-not a
patching up of the old one. The present one
is not only old and inadequate: it is jinxed.
Those who have followed the incessant
troubles of Cheltenham have long since been
convinced that the only way of getting rid
of them is to start afresh. If Cheltenham
moves to a new location there will be a new
school. If the decision is to keep the institu-
Lion where it is now, then it must also be a
new school.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.