The Case Against The Site
For Cheltenham Is Weak
Consider the case being presented by the
opponents of the State's plan for a new
Cheltenham School for Negro Boys to be
located on a 122-acre tract between the
Hollins Ferry and Old Annapolis roads. The
tract in question is zoned for residential use.
The opponents of the plan claim that the
school. proposal violates the zoning law in
that that law prohibits the erection of either
a correctional or penal institution in a
residential area. The claim does not hold
much water.
While the proposed school site is zoned
for residential use, its present use and
character are definitely not residential. The
tract is nothing more than waste land; its
extreme eastern section is neavily scarred
with abandoned ore pits. Just outside its
perimeter there are to be found an auto-
mobile graveyard, a lumber yard and several
taverns.. And somewhat to the north and
east of the property is the Baltimore and
Ohio Railroad's right of way to the Curtis
Bay-Fairfield industrial area. Such condi-
tions do not invite residential development.
The charge that the school is a correctional
or penal institution is also open to some
question. The school is not under the State
Department of Correction as are the Peni-
tentiary, the House of Correction and the re-
formatories at Breathedsville and Jessups.
It is under the State Department of Welfare.
And the plans call for a school with support-
ing cottages and appropriate planting and
not for something resembling the City Jail.
But even if the school were held to be a
correctional or penal institution, there is
nothing to prevent the City Council from
changing the zoning designation to permit
the use of the proposed location. Such a
step could hardly be classed as spot zoning,
and we fail to see how the surrounding
areas could be affected adversely.
In this connection it is worth noting that
when those who had the responsibility of
selecting a site were making their studies
some fault was found with the location
- eventually decided on because it did not have
better surroundings. But it was decided that
these conditions could be overcome and the
immediate neighborhood given a lift by a
well-planted and commodious school ground.
The opponents of the State's plan for
Cheltenham have not made out a case.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.