The Present Cheltenham
Cannot Be A Good School
The blast by the Prince George's county
grand jury against the Cheltenham School
for Boys follows a pattern which has become
almost a norm for criticism of the State-
owned and State-operated training school for
delinquent Negro boys. The physical equip-
ment at the institution is "deplorable,"
morale is "bad" and discipline is "nonex-
istent." Such are the charges that have been
made and, continue to be made.
Where does the fault lie for the inexcus-
able situation at Cheltenham? Does it lie on
the doorstep of the board of managers? Con-
sider these facts: Some of the key buildings
at the school are 50 and more years old, and
they have long since served out their useful-
- ness. There has been no real effort to mod-
- ernize them. The school has an authorized
staff of 75 persons, but there are 32 vacan-
cies. Much hard work has been done to fill
open positions, but the manpower shortage
- occasioned by the war and the location of the
- school have made recruitment almost im-
possible.
: The problem of maintaining discipline and
morale has become particularly difficult in
the last year or so. This results from the fact
that the school has had to accept an increas-
ing number of youths in the upper-age
brackets. Many of these youths cannot be
controlled in an open institution, and the
place lacks a security division. It is these
older youths who, in the main, have figured
in the escapes and "depredations". com-
plained of by the grand jury. On top of all
this is the fact that the school has some
inmates who should very properly be in an
institution for the feeble-minded.
The board of managers in the last year or
two has taken steps to improve conditions at
the school and, in so far as the younger in-
males are concerned, there are indications
that there have been improvements. But the
only hope for a real solution in the Chelten-
ham problem lies in the plans now being
formulated for a wholly new institution.
The responsibility for these plans does not
rest primarily with the board of managers
but with the heads of the State government.
It is the latter who set the policies and see
that the money is forthcoming.
Until we have a new Cheltenham, not on
the drafting board but in reality, there will
be solid grounds for criticism of the school
in Prince George's county.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.