Nine Of 'X-9 Club' Man Sentenced
Go To Cheltenham
For Army Theft
Nine Negro boys, members of al Convicted of stealing 27 watches,
gang known as the "X-9 Club," yes- other jewelry and $750 in cash from
terday were committed to Chelten- the post exchange at Westover
ham School for Boys after a closed
trial in the Juvenile Court at Army Air Base, in Massachusetts,
Fritz Meyers, 27-year-old Negro,
series of burglaries near Fort who formerly was stationed at that
Annapolis on charges involving a
George G. Meade.
base, yesterday was sentenced to
three and a half years in a Federal
Commitments of the boys, rang-prison.
ing in age from 11 to 15, were
ordered by Judge William J. Mc- Meyers, whose home is in Wood-
Williams, of the Circuit Court for bine, Md., pleaded guilty to the
Anne Arundel county, sitting as the charge before Judge William C.
Juvenile Court. They were given Coleman last Friday, but sentence
indeterminate sentences.
was deferred until yesterday since
Judge McWilliams said Corporal the length of the sentence was con-
M. E. Jackson, of the State police,
gave statements concerning the
rolled by the State laws of Massa-
chusetts and prosecutors asked time
charges against the accused and to study those laws.
told how the youths were 'arrested. The defendant was arraigned
here instead of in Massachusetts
Last Thursday police raided the
inder provisions of the new Fed-
club's headquarters in the 600
block West Conway street, seizing eral rules of procedure. Meyers
a club roster and a suitcase full of consented to be tried here. Accord-
stolen jewelry and other articles. ing to Bernard J. Flynn, United
The gang was led by a 15-year-old States attorney for Maryland, Mey-
youth nicknamed "Big Fat, Jr.," ers was discharged from the base
police said.
3 Soldiers Charged
With Radio Thefts
Charged with breaking into an
East Baltimore street store early
yesterday and stealing three radios,
three soldiers were held in $1,000
bail each for action of the grand
jury.
They are Privates Herbert L.
Fansler, 18; Paul Boucher, 19, and
Benjamin Blackledge, 19, all sta-
tioned at the Aberdeen Proving
Ground.
They were given a hearing be-
fore Magistrate Elmer J. Hammer
in the Central Police Court.
To Speak Tomorrow
Mrs. Louis Ottenberg, of Wash-
ington, will speak to members of
the National Council of Jewish
Women on child and maternity
care and better housing at 11 A.M.
tomorrow at the Suburban Club.
ate in March and the theft oс-
curred on May 2.