3 Beat Seaman,
Rob Him Of $183
Cheltenham's
Problems Cited
I The three men who robbed him Protection of the community
in Market place early yesterday should be the first consideration of
morning, George Boyer believes, the board of managers of the
added injury to insult.
Cheltenham School for Boys,
Thomas B. Sprague, newly elected
president of the board, declared.
He said he was aware of a defi-
Boyer, a merchant seaman from
Alma, Mich., told police that the
three men approached him at Mar-
ket place and Water street.
The first man, he said, hit him nite need for improvement in the
in the eye.
situation at the school for delin-
The second struck him over the quent Negro boys and would en-
head.
deavor to acquaint himself
The third knocked him down promptly with all aspects of the
and kicked him.
Between them, Boyer reported,
the men got $183 in cash and his
seaman's papers.
Robber Scoops $65
problem.
The school has been troubled
over an extended period by a large
number of runaways, and a secur-
ity unit soon will be opened in an
effort to correct the situation. Con-
version of one of the school's cot-
tages for security purposes cur-
rently is under way.
From Restaurant Till
Taking the money from the cash
register himself, a middle-aged Mr. Sprague, who was appointed
man last night robbed a restaurant to the board only last week, said
in the 1200 block Edmondson ave three sites for location of a new
nue of $65.
George Avierinos, 50, co-owner
of the restaurant, told police that
the man, a Negro, entered the place
at about 11 P.M. while he was
counting the day's receipts.
Cheltenham school were being in-
vestigated.
Judge Constable In Hospital
Elkton, Md., Nov. 22 (AP)-Asso-
Avierinos said that the man, ciate Judge Albert Constable, of
with his hand in his pocket as if he the Second Judicial Circuit, has
had a gun, waved him aside, been taken to a Philadelphia hos-
reached into the cash register, pital where he underwent treat-
scooped up the money and fled, ment last spring. He has been ill
disappearing on Edmondson ave for some time and suffered a re-
nue.
lapse recently.