A Negro Delinquent Case
'And The Cheltenham Problem
The Board of Public Works has in-
structed the board of managers of Chel-
tenham School, working with the State
Department of Public Welfare, to find a
new site for this institution. In so doing
the board has acted wisely, as all
thoughtful people will agree. Chelten-
ham has been the target of sharp eriti-
cism for years. Its buildings are old and
ill-fitted for the training of delinquent
boys; its teaching staff has not been
maintained at desirable standards. A
new school is the obvious answer, and
this fact has been recognized for some
time.
The inadequacies of Cheltenham were
given special attention by Governor
O'Conor's Commission on Juvenile De-
linquency. It recommended that the
present school property be turned over
to the State Board of Mental Hygiene
for use as an institution for "trainable
defective Negro boys" and that a new
Cheltenham at a new site be established
for normal and border-line delinquent
youths. Within a month or two after the
appearance of the commission's recom-
mendations they were written into law
by the General Assembly.
If anyone doubts that the Commis-
sion on Juvenile Delinquency, the Legis-
lature, and now the Board of Public
Works, have taken the right course, we
recommend the reading of a news arti-
ele which appeared in The Sun yester-
day. The article tells of the case of a 13-
year-old Negro boy found to be a delin-
quent by Judge Charles E. Moylan. The
Cheltenham School refused to accept
the youth because of a low intelligence
quotient; the court psychiatrist reported
that the boy was not a fit subject for
the Crownsville State Hospital.
There was no place to send the boy,
and Judge Moylan refused to release
him. He has been turned over to the
Department of Public Welfare. What
this agency will do with him is, of
course, the question. There will be a
ready answer in such cases when the
new Cheltenham has been built on its
new site and the present school proр-
erty has been converted to the use
proposed by the Legislature and now
approved by the Board of Public Works.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.