Plans For Cheltenham
TO THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir: After
reading two recent editorials in The Sun
dealing with plans for Cheltenham, 1
desire to make the following statement
on behalf of the board of managers of
the Cheltenham School for Boys:
The Cheltenham board is working in
coöperation with the State Department
of Public Welfare on plans for the pro-
posed training school for colored boys
to be located elsewhere than at Chelten-
ham, Md. This new school will not carry
the name of "Cheltenham," but will prob-
ably be called the Maryland Training
School for Colored Boys.
At the request of the Board of Public
Works, a committee is in search of a site
for the new school in the vicinity of Bal-
timore. Furthermore, we have a definite
program outlined for this new school.
All of this is in accordance with the law
passed by the last Legislature, and also
is in response to the request of the Mary-
land State Planning Commission. Fur
thermore, in a recent meeting with the
Cheltenham board of managers and over
seventy-five outstanding citizens of the
colored group Governor O'Conor ex-
pressed his interest in and his support
of the program. As soon as the board has
completed its studies pertaining to the
location, number and type of buildings,
school and recreational facilities which
will be needed to serve these particular
hoys, we shall submit the plan to the
Maryland State Planning Commission.
In the meantime, certain alterations
and additions are being planned and re-
quested for the present site for the pur-
pose of creating decent living conditions
as well as adequate facilities for the
housing of staff and further carrying out
of the present program. Capable persons
are available as cottage supervisors, aca-
demic and vocational instructors, but we
are lacking any living quarters for them.
New dining-room accommodations are
also being requested along with a re-
ceiving cottage for the study of new boys.
These recommended improvements have
been discussed with Dr. Preston, who
has told us that they will fit into the
needs of the institution when operated
by the Board of Mental Hygiene.
The Governor and the Board of Pub-
lic Works have already approved the
installation of adequate sanitary facili-
ties in each of the six cottages. This
work is now being done. Mr. Royal A. В.
Crump, the new superintendent, is doing
admirable work in cleaning up and mak-
ing the present buildings more usable.
We appreciate the concern and interest
of The Sun in its endeavor to keep the
public informed concerning the progress
toward a new school for the colored boys
of Maryland.
F. REID ISAAC,
President, Cheltenham Board of
Managers.
Baltimore, Oct. 11.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.