Mr. O'Conor Can Settle
The Cheltenham Issue
Governor O'Conor's statement regard-
ing plans for the Cheltenham School
for Boys is reassuring in one respect.
He says that nothing yet has been de-
cided by the Board of Public Works. This
gives the board an opportunity to fall
back into line with the State's formally
adopted policy regarding Cheltenham.
What is behind all this? To put it
briefly, Cheltenham is a kind of hodge-
podge institution to which delinquent
Negro boys are sent. Traditionally, it
has made no distinction between boys
who are normal and susceptible to train-
ing and eventual return to society and
boys who are abnormal-feeble-minded,
epileptic, etc.--and likely to require per-
manent custodial care. Obviously these
two categories of boys ought to be kept
separate.
Following persistent public criticism
over many years, Mr. O'Conor's own
Commission on Juvenile Delinquency
finally came out with recommendations
regarding Cheltenham, in its big report
of January, 1943. In essence, it recom-
mended that Cheltenham be devoted
solėly to feeble-minded cases, and be
placed under the Board of Mental
Hygiene. To carry out the original pur-
pose for which Cheltenham was founded,
it recommended the building of an en-
tirely new training school for delinquent
(not feeble-minded) Negro boys, and it
recommended, for a variety of sound
reasons, that this new training school
be located much closer to Baltimore.
A few months later the General As-
sembly formally ratified these recom-
mendations as an expression of State
policy, writing them into law. The as-
sumption was that the construction of
the new training school would take
place at the earliest possible time-
which means that it should be high on
the list of post-war projects.
But last month the State Board of
Public Works, without consulting the
Cheltenham Board, the Department of
Public Welfare or the Board of Mental
Hygiene, dusted off an ancient set
of recommendations regarding Chelten-
ham and began the consideration of
them. These recommendations ante-
dated the action of the General
Assembly by many years, and in view
of the Assembly's subsequent action are
now obsolete and irrelevant. To adopt
them would be to brush aside the consid-
ered opinion of the Commission on Juve-
nile Delinquency, the decision of the
General Assembly, and the desire of in-
formed citizens generally to see the
whole Cheltenham question settled prop-
erly, once and for all.
Why has the Board of Public Works
gone off on this tangent? If it did so
through oversight and misunderstand-
ing, then things can quickly be straight-
ened out. If it did so in response to local
pressure for the maintenance of a train-
ing school in its present location, then
Mr. O'Conor will know how to deal with
that. In the past, Mr. O'Conor has more
than once been confronted with a choice
between yielding to local pressure and
taking action directed to the welfare of
the whole State. When he has resisted
local pressure and stood by the State's
best interest, he has gained greatly in
stature and public esteem, and has con-
firmed the confidence of his supporters.
Once again, in this matter of the Chel-
tenham School, Mr. O'Conor has an op-
portunity to show that the welfare of
the whole State is the deciding factor in
This decisions.
|
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.