SHORTAGES HINDER
JUVENILES' CARE
Serious Problems Reported By
Agencies For Delinquents
Critical shortages of help, lack
of adequate equipment, and over-
crowded conditions are affecting
the operation of the State's four
correctional institutions for juve-
nile delinquents.
A description of current condi
tions at each of the four, as re-
ported by the State Board of Pub-
lie Welfare, follows:
Cheltenham School, for Negro
boys, has a population of 270, ex
ceeding its capacity by 30. There
are about 50 mental defectives in
the school and no provision has
been made for their segregation
from the normal children. The in-
stitution is so crowded that only
the "most urgent" cases are com
mitted at the present time.
Elementary Training Given
Elementary school training is
given by a staff of five teachers
who have first-grade teacher cer-
tificates. Classes are conducted in
the basements of cottages and the
gymnasium, but the rooms are not
equipped according to public-
school standards.
There is a well-equipped gymna-
sium, with a qualified instructor.
Food is prepared under the super-
vision of a dietitian, but the facil-
Eties for the preparation of food
and the washing and sterilization reation, such as ping pong, check-
of dishes were described as "gross- ers, etc.
ly inadequate."
Vocational courses taught in-
clude garment manufacturing,
The boys are clothed in denim painting, carpentry, power plant
shirts and overalls. In the past operation, farming, elementary
dress uniforms were provided for business and other pursuits simi-
use on Sundays and holidays, but larly linked with the operation of
now only about a third of the boys the institution.
have uniforms. The school has been
unable to obtain a tailor for more
than a year.
Has Full-Time Physician
There is a full-time physician
and a dentist comes to the school
twice a week.
Training Discontinued
Training in machine shop, auto-
mobile mechanics, sheet metal,
printing and mechanical drawing
has been discontinued because of
lack of instructors.
Boys have dress uniforms in
addition to fatigue uniform and
The boys are given some voca- denim clothes.
tional training, but it is limited Average time spent by boys in
to such maintenance chores as the institution is 14 months. Two
dairying, shoe repairing, plumbing, field supervisors are responsible
gardening, canning in season and for parolees, many of whom enter
tailoring, when a tailor is available. the armed forces immediately upon
There are two parole officers release.
!
whose duty it is to find jobs for There is a full time registered
the boys when they are released nurse; a physician visits the school
and exercise supervision in cases once a week and a dentist comes
where indicated.
Ten Vacancies On Staff
one day a week.
"Greatly Understaffed"
At the present time there are ten The school is greatly under-
vacancies on the school staff, in- staffed, with 30 per cent. of the
cluding cottage masters, stenog. staff positions unfilled.
raphers, tailors, farmers and cooks. Montrose School for Girls is
A new dining room building and filled to its capacity of 125, and
toilet and bathing facilities for the there is a waiting list.
cottages are urgently needed.
Elementary and high school
Maryland Training School for courses, a commercial course and
Colored Girls has a capacity of 90, vocational training are taught by
with the present population at 84, qualified teachers in standard
making it the only one of the four school rooms.
institutions not crowded beyond There is a gymnasium in which a
capacity.
recreational program is supervised
School courses are given up to by a physical education instructor,
and including the ninth grade by and there are two basket-ball teams
qualified teachers in school rooms among the girls.
conforming to public school stand-
ards.
Vocations Taught
Vocational teaching includes arts
Recreation Facilities Poor
and crafts, sewing, child care, and
beauty shop operation.
Facilities for recreation are poor.
The school's parole committee
The foundation for a recreation meets once a month to consider
hall was laid six years ago, but applications for release. There is
the building has never been com- no difficulty in finding employment
pleted. Movies are shown once a for those paroled. There is no out-
week. There is no qualified re- side supervision at present because
creation director. Facilities for re- of personnel shortage.
creation are limited to the cottages There are hospital facilities and
and outdoor fields.
a physician and a dentist visit the
Vocational training is given in school regularly for routine exami
domestic work, sewing and store- nations. There also is a full-time
keeping and those paroled under registered nurse.
the supervision of the school's one Five staff positions are open, in-
parole officer are referred to the cluding two parole workers, two
State Employment Office for jobs. secretaries and a housekeeper.. At
There is a waiting list of persons least, two new buildings are ur-
desirous of hiring paroled girls for gently needed.
domestic work.
Superintendents of all four insti-
The girls are not required to tutions were selected from eligible
wear uniforms, but are allowed to lists after civil service examina-
choose material from which they tions.
make their own dresses.
Registered Nurse On Duty
There is a registered nurse on
full time duty; a physician visits
the school three times a week and
a dentist spends one half day a
week at the institution.
The following staff positions are
vacant: assistant superintendent,
farm manager, farmhand, kitchen
superintendent, chauffeur and
handyman.
The Maryland Training School
for Boys has a normal capacity of
280. A shortage of help required
the closing of one cottage, how-
ever, so the current capacity is
only 240, compared with a popu-
lation of 286. As a result, the Juve-
nile Court has been asked to com-
mit boys only when it is absolutely
necessary.
Teacher Is Needed
Elementary and junior high
school courses are taught by a
staff consisting of a principal and
four qualified teachers. There is a
current opening for a teacher.
School rooms are in conformity
with public school standards.
The gymnasium is well equipped
and is under the supervision of one
of the teachers. Each cottage also
is equipped with facilities for rec-