Can't They Have Knives
And Forks At Least?
▼
Back in the Dark Ages a grand jury
took the trip down to Cheltenham
School for Colored Boys, near Upper
Marlboro, and, after deploring condi-
tions in general, expressed surprise that
cach boy ate all his food out of a single
dish and had nothing to eat it with
except a large tin spoon.
In subsequent years, numerous other
grand.juries, not to mention State com-
missions and independent investigators,
have gone down to inspect Cheltenham
and, after deploring conditions in gen-
eral, have expressed surprise that the
boys ate all their food out of a single
dish and had nothing to eat it with ex-
cept a large tin spoon.
Last week Mayor McKeldin, accom-
panied by several other gentlemen
equally distinguished for their interest
in social betterment, took the trip down
to Cheltenham. Like their numerous
predecessors, the members of this party
all expressed surprise that the boys had
no eating utensils except tablespoons.
Cheltenham, as we all know, is one
of the skeletons in the State's institu-
tional cupboard. When the war is over
there is going to be a new Cheltenham.
The General Assembly has said so. The
Board of Public Works, after some back-
ing and filling, has said so. Everybody
now agrees that there is going to be a
new Cheltenham-a fine, sanitary, well-
designed, wholesome institution for the
rehabilitation of delinquent Negro boys.
But, though it would be obviously
foolish to try to fix up the present Chel-
tenham, pending the construction of the
fine new post-war Cheltenham, is there
any reason why the boys, in the mean-
time, shouldn't be given knives and
forks as well as spoons? Cheltenham is
supposed to rehabilitate-that is, to
train these youngsters to play a useful
rôle in society. And, though we would
be the last to claim that good table man-
ners are synonymous with good char-
acter, the fact remains that a child is
better equipped to take his part in the
world if he knows how to eat like a civi-
lized human being.
War or no war, we believe that the
Board of Public Works, or whatever
other public authority has the power,
should authorize the purchase of
enough knives and forks to go around
at Cheltenham.
4
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.