Enlarging The State's
Postwar Works Program
The recommendation on Monday, by the
State's Commission on Postwar Reconstruc-
tion and Development, of a long list of addi-
tional projects is a reminder that the State's
postwar public-works program has been
making steady headway.
In developing this program, several steps
are involved. First, the commission surveys
all the various proposals, winnows the wheat
from the chaff, and makes recommendations
to the State Board of Public Works regard-
ing desirable projects. So far the commis-
sion has recommended projects amounting
to no less than $16,900,000.
Having received the recommendations, the
State Board of Public Works acts upon them
in due time. So far it has definitely adopted
as part of the public-works program some
$9,400,000 worth of projects. It has projects
amounting to $7,500,000 still to act upon-
most of these being the recommendations
made by the commission on Monday and sent
to the board yesterday.
Yet the program cannot reach the action
stage until the General Assembly has appro-
priated the funds. Funds are already allo-
cated only in the case of a few relatively
small projects. The General Assembly, which
is to meet next month, will have the consid-
eration of this great program as one of its
principal duties.
The sum involved is a large one for Mary.
land. Yet the State is not wholly unprepared.
There exists already a postwar building fund
which will yield a net of approximately
$2,000,000 for actual construction. In addi
tion, a State surplus of somewhere around
$8,000,000 will be available. Thus funds suffi-
cient to pay for more than half of the pro-
gram as so far recommended are already on
hand, if the General Assembly chooses to
use them for the purpose. That is a pretty
good start.
As for the list of works recommended on
Monday but not yet approved by the Board
of Public Works, it includes a number of im-
portant projects which have long been under
discussion. One of these is for the establish-
ment of a new Maryland training school for
colored boys, an institution designed to re-
place that least admirable of State institu-
tions, the Cheltenham School. Improvements
for the Maryland Training School for Boys
and the Montrose School for Girls are like-
wise included.
These appropriations lie in the realm of
rehabilitation and training. The recommen-
dations regarding higher education bulk even
larger. A program. for the University of
Maryland adds up to the substantial sum of
$4,274,000, most of it going into the further
expansion of physical plan at College Park.
But this list also includes provision for a new
psychopathic hospital, or ward, in connec-
tion with the university's medical school in
Baltimore. Baltimore is a great center of
medical education, and the field of psy.
chiatry is represented by the world-famous
Phipps Clinic. But the institution now being
recommended would have a different func-
tion, being a sort of clearing house for acute
psychiatric cases. The lack of such an institu-
tion, not only as an important direct service
to the public but as a clinical aid to medical
teaching, has been felt for a long time.
Finally, the commission has recommended
the financing by the State of substantial addi-
tions to the engineering school of Johns Hop-
kins University. Though Johns Hopkins is a
private institution, the State has had a heavy
interest in the engineering school from its
inception. After the war, the demand for
men trained in the several branches of engi.
neering is going to be very heavy, owing
partly to the shortage of trained engineers
occasioned by the war and partly to con-
tinued advance in the engineering arts. And
this will be coupled with equally heavy de-
mands on our engineering schools for basic
and applied research-extensions, after a
fashion, of the kind of research which Johns
Hopkins and other institutions have carried
on in connection with the war. Additional
State assistance should therefore prove to
be money well spent.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.