Two Important Bills
On Juvenile Delinquency
One of the major responsibilities rest
ing on the General Assembly during the
final week of its deliberations will be the
adoption of bills to revise the Juvenile
Court setup in Baltimore city and to
provide for the care of juvenile delin
quents in State institutions under the
over-all direction of the Department of
Public Welfare.
The first of these bills conforms in a
general way to the recommendations
which the Bond Commission made on
the subject of the Juvenile Court. It
provides that one of the judges of the
Baltimore Supreme Bench shall pre-
side over the Juvenile Court. The Juve-
nile Court will have original and exclu-
sive jurisdiction over offenses (except
capital crimes) committed by persons
under 16 years of age, and also over
cases of neglected, dependent and feeble-
minded children. It will have power to
commit the children of whose cases the
court takes jurisdiction to the care of
the Department of Public Welfare which
will report to it.
The second bill, based on recommen-
dations by the Commission on Juvenile
Delinquency, provides that the State
Welfare Department take over the cus-
tody of juvenile delinquents. To this
end the department is provided with
supervisory powers over the Maryland
Training School for Boys, Montrose
School for Girls, Cheltenham School for
Boys and the Maryland Training School
for Colored Girls. An appropriation to
allow the department to handle the
juvenile-delinquency cases is included in
the supplemental budget which went to
the General Assembly on Friday.
Governor O'Conor emphatically in-
dorsed the two bills in a broadcast a
week ago. He urged their enactment as
a means of ending the disgraceful prac-
tice of confining juvenile delinquents in
State penal institutions along with
mature offenders. The bills have now
been reported out by the Senate Com-
mittee on Judicial Proceedings, whose
chairman, Senator Byrnes, was also sec-
retary of the Juvenile Delinquency Com-
mission. Certain amendments were
made, all of which were accepted by the
commission, and only one of which
raises any misgiving. This one amend-
ment deprives the Welfare Department
of the veto power which the original
bill would have given it over the ap-
pointment of superintendents of the
four institutions concerned by their
respective boards.
It would have been better to retain
the provision under which the superin-
tendents would have been appointed
subject to the Welfare Department's
approval. But opposition to this pro-
vision from the boards of the institutions
concerned had arisen, and the Judicial
Proceedings Committee thought it best
to make the change. Its judgment of
the situation must be reluctantly
accepted. The main thing now is to get
the bills passed and end the conditions
the Governor described in his broad-
cast. Every precaution should be taken
to insure that these measures do not get
lost in the last-minute shuffle.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.