Why Pick
On Cheltenham?
Alas, it is necessary to write another
chapter in the confused and unhappy
history of Cheltenham School for Boys.
Cheltenham is a school for delinquent
Negro boys, located in Southern Mary-
land. It has long been recognized as
being hopelessly inadequate for its pur-
pose. Back in January of 1943 the Mary-
land Commission on Juvenile Delin.
quency recommended that Cheltenham
be transferred to a new building on an
entirely new site and that the present
school property be made into an institu-
tion for defective Negro boys exclusively
and placed under the State Board of
Mental Hygiene. The present Chelten-
_ham undertakes the impossible task of
dealing with both defective Negro boys
and boys who are susceptible of rehabili-
tation. The gist of the recommendation
was that these two groups be separated.
The recommendation was approved
by Governor O'Conor and subsequently
written into-law by the Legislature.
In spite of this, the Governor's im-
E posing Maryland Commission on Post-
War Reconstruction and Development
has persistently refused to accept the
State's policy regarding Cheltenham. In
October of last year it published a formal
report listing State post-war improve-
ment projects. In the list was a program
for the patching up of the present Chel-
tenham-an obsolete and inadequate
program which had long since been
junked by the State administration.
When this fact was discovered, there
followed a brief uproar, which was
quieted when the Governor announced
that, regardless of his imposing Com-
mission on Post-War Reconstruction
and Development, the State's declared
policy regarding Cheltenham would nev-
ertheless be followed.
And now what? The Commission on
Post-War Reconstruction, etc., has just
issued another progress report; and the
Governor has expressed satisfaction
with it. What does this latest report
have to say about Cheltenham?
Once again, the Commission on Post-
War, etc., trots out the obsolete, inade-
quate and oft-repudiated scheme for
patching up the present Cheltenham.
Evidently the Commission on Post-
War, etc., learns slowly. Its recommen-
dations regarding Cheltenham is wholly
out of line with State policy. If its other
recommendations, filling many pages,
are as beside the point as its recommen-
dations on Cheltenham, then the proper
filing place for this report is the nearest
wastebasket.
Won't someone in Annapolis. please
tell us once and for all what the official
administration line is regarding Chel-
tenham, and then see that that line is
adhered to?
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.