More Trouble Brewing
Over Cheltenham?
It looks as though the affairs of Chel-
tenham School for Boys are getting
badly snarled up again.
Cheltenham is the State training
school for Negro youngsters in Prince
George's county. For years it was the
focal point of criticism. Independent
investigators and a succession of grand
juries reported conditions at the insti-
tution to be unsatisfactory from almost
every point of view, and there devel
oped a determined campaign, either to
improve the institution or to replace it
with another.
These efforts came to a head in Janu-
ary of last year, when the report of
Governor O'Conor's own Commission on
Juvenile Delinquency urged not the
patching up of the institution as it was
then but its present abandonment and
the construction of a wholly new institu
tion, closer to Baltimore and designed
especially for the work in hand. It
was suggested that on the construction
of a new institution the old institution
be turned over to the Board of Mental
Hygiene for the care of defective colored
juvenile delinquents, a use to which it
is suited.
Within a month or two of the appear-
ance of this report, the recommenda-
tions regarding Cheltenham were writ-
ten into the law, as follows:
The Board of Public Works is here-
by authorized and empowered, as soon
as conditions permit, and to the extent
that funds may be set aside for the
purpose in a capital account in the
budget, to proceed with the acquisition
of an appropriate site and the con-
struction and equipment of...a new
training school for non-defective col-
ared juvenile delinquents. under the
supervision of the State Department
of Public Welfare to take the place of
Cheltenham School for Boys, which
Institution shall then be converted into
an institution exclusively for defective
colored juvenile delinquents, under
the supervision, direction and control
of the Board of Mental Hygiene.
Thus the replacement of Cheltenham
by a new and adequate institution is a
matter of formal public policy. It is a
settled issue..
Settled? Not quite. For the State
Board of Public Works has given evi-
dence of intention to disregard the law.
On April 15 the secretary of this board
listed a series of projects, running into
some hundreds of thousands of dollars,
for the improvement of Cheltenham.
These were not mere repairs, to keep
the present institution in shape until
its successor can be built. They were
major undertakings looking to the con-
tinuance of Cheltenham in its present
location. And the Board of Public
Works adopted this program without
reference to the views of the Chelten.
ham Board, or to those of the Depart-
ment of Public Welfare or the Board
of Mental Hygiene.
Why has the Department of Public
Welfare so chosen to act in defiance of
settled public policy? It owes the public
an explanation and a speedy return to
the guidance of the law. Since Governor
O'Conor is a member of the Board of
Public Works and dominates its pro-
ceedings, the explanation for this curi-
ous disregard of the law might properly
-come from him.
4
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.