Two Hopeful Proposals
For Correctional Schools
By a pleasant coincidence, yesterday's
paper recorded potential advances in
the handling of Maryland's juvenile de-
linquents in two respects. Neither ad-
vance is revolutionary, but both show
an appreciation of present shortcomings.
Governor O'Conor announced that a
unit at the Maryland School for Boys
will be set aside, on October 1, for boys
from 16 to 18 who have been convicted
of serious crimes. Up to the present
time, such boys have been sent either
to the House of Correction or to the
Penitentiary, both equally bad from the
penologists' point of view. Hereafter
they will be incarcerated not with adult
prisoners but with boys of their own
age and, presumably, rehabilitation tech-
niques will be used.
This plan is obviously a stop-gap, and
- the Governor makes no greater claim for
it. It still leaves out of account the
younger criminals-those of 14 and 15-
and it is doubtful, in addition, that it is
wise to have proven criminals, even in
a separate inclosure, in so close an asso-
ciation with the other boys at the train-
ing school, most of whom are there for
less serious offenses. Yet it is an at-
tempt to deal with part of the larger
problem and as such is to be commended.
The other announcement is more
stimulating. Only recently, the board of
trustees of Cheltenham School, which
alls for colored boys roughly the place
which the Maryland Training School
fills for whites, announced the appoint-
ment of a new superintendent, Royal A.
B. Crump, a colored man. Now the new
superintendent announces his program.
His aim is to make Cheltenham some-
thing more than a mere place of deten-
tion. He wants to give it, in fact, the
status of an accredited school, the in-
mates of which can continue their
studies, whether academic or vocational,
precisely as if they were free.
This is bold thinking, and Mr. Crump
deserves all credit for making his views
known. That there will be administrative
difficulties in carrying out such a pro-
gram everyone can see. But the board
and citizens generally should give the
new superintendent every support in
his effort.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.