NOT TOO FAST
After several months of study, the com-
mittee of the State Department of Educa-
tion assigned to make educational recom.
mendations for the Cheltenham School for
Boys has made public its report. On the
whole, the committee has done a thoughtful
piece of work. It has placed its emphasis
where it should be placed on the need of a
real rehabilitation program at Cheltenham,
to educate and train its inmates so they can
be fitted for return to the community.
But in one respect the committee seems
to go too fast. It recommends that the insti-
tution be restricted to boys of sufficient in-
telligence to benefit from educational train-
ing. To this end, it suggests that Cheltenham
be given the power to set its own standards
and reject those applicants it does not want.
Specifically, this would mean turning more
than one hundred feeble-minded boys over
to Crownsville State Hospital, it appears,
while the House of Correction would be
asked to take those who seem to have crimi-
nal tendencies.
The desire to improve standards at Chel-
tenham is an entirely laudable one, but the
principle advocated here is dangerous. If
each State institution is empowered to set
its own admission standards, the courts of
Maryland are likely to be left with a resid-
ual group of urgent cases which no institu-
tion will take. This condition already has
been reached with regard to white boys and
girls in the defective delinquent category,
and some extremely vicious cases are at large
in Baltimore at this moment. It would be
highly undesirable to have a similar situa-
tion exist with regard to Negro boys, for
whom Cheltenham now makes provision.
To recommend that the feeble-minded be
sent to Crownsville is no solution, because
Crownsville has room for only a limited
number-about thirty-odd, at present. It
may be equally impracticable to divert the
younger criminal type to the House of Cor-
rection. Rather, the solution would seem
to be a proper type of segregation within
Cheltenham itself. No plan for raising stand-
ards can be accepted offhand which leads to
the institution shirking its basic and residual
responsibility for taking care of those Negro
boys who must somehow be institutionalized.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.