O'CONOR PUTS
BAN ON NEW
NON-WAR JOBS
To Oppose Departmental
Expansion Unless
Imperative
Meanwhile, Duties Of
Several Agencies Are
Increasing
By LOUIS J. O'DONNELL
[Sun Staff Correspondent]
Annapolis, Nov. 19
Governor
O'Conor today indicated that he
proposes to place an inflexible ban
in the next biennium's budget on
departmental expansion and the
creation of new jobs, except in
instances directly connected with
the war effort.
He revealed this policy at the
conclusion this afternoon of the
second day's public hearing on de-
partmental and institutional appro-
priation requests, during which it
was brought out that:
The State Department of
Health, flooded with additional
war duties, pressed by the loss of
physicians to the armed services
and guarding against possible
epidemie infections brought here
by the population influx from
other localities, already is plan-
ning to cope with a possible post-
war importation of "foreign"
diseases.
Institutions for the care of
juvenile delinquents anticipate a
rise in commitments to their
custody and are being impor-
tuned to lower the ages at which
they will accept incorrigible and
so-called underprivileged chil-
dren.
Maryland's oystermen, with the
bivalves bringing the unheard of
price of $2 a bushel, are forsak-
ing war-plant jobs to return to
tonging in the bay and its tribu-
taries.
Morgan State College for Ne-
groes may lose its accredited
standard rating if funds are not
supplied for supplementing and
improving its faculty.
Industrial accidents in which
claims are made for compensa
tion before the State Industrial
Accident Commission have risen
in two years from 10,000 to 19,900
for the current year.
In addition to asking an increase
in his budget of $63,218 and $66,000
in 1944 and 1945, respectively, Dr.
Robert H. Riley, State Director of
Health, requested Governor O'Conor
to consider the establishment of a
contingent fund to meet possible
public health emergencies during
the next three years.
Dr. Riley's Budget
The increases sought, Dr. Riley
said, will call for a Health Depart-
ment budget in 1944 of $596,044
and $599.329 in 1945.
A considerable portion of the ad-
ditional funds is needed to employ
essential personnel and retain the
services of trained and experienced
members of the staff who are being
tempted to take higher-paying posts
elsewhere, it was said.
"The Health Department's
Bureau of Laboratory is doing an
enormous amount of extra work as
the result of the war.
"We are making 500.000 examina-
tions a year, many of them tests for
the Selective Service which, if done
on a commercial basis at a modest
fee of $3, would alone cost $1,500,-
000, just three times the amount
we're asking to run the whole de-
partment.
"A total of $10,000 in the addi
tional funds we need for 1944 arc
to give raises to our older person
nel, and about $12,000 for this pur
pose in 1945.
Personnel Sought
"In the way of additional person-
nel we need another bacteriologist
and a laboratory helper; two chem.
ists, one for the Baltimore labora-
tory and another for the Eastern
Shore laboratory; the salary for an
industrial health engineer, whose
salary now is met by the Federal
(Continued on Page 20, Column 2)
Government, and $4,500 for a dep-
uty State health officer in the
Communicable Disease Bureau,
who now is being paid by the Fed-
eral Government; a public health
nurse in the venereal disease con-
trol work and a few stenographers.
"We have lost thirty trained
laboratory workers within recent
months.
"You can understand the diffi-
culty we have in maintaining satis-
factory public health conditions in
Maryland with new population com-
ing in from all parts of the coun-
try-some from States with inade-
quate sanitary laws-and ignorant
of the clemental rules of sanitation.
Smallpox, Malaria
"We've had no smallpox in Mary-
land for twelve years, yet in other
sections of the country the United
States Public Health Service re-
ports hundreds of thousands of
cases each year. We know we're
going to have to meet this prob-
ability in the industrial areas where
many unvaccinated persons
coming into the State.
are
"There has been an improvement
in the death rate from tuberculosis.
but people are coming into Mary-
land from elsewhere with active
cases of it and there's no place
to hospitalize them, and we're try-
ing to send them back where they
came from, meanwhile having to
take care of them while they're
here.
! "We've had no malaria here
since 1921, but it will be brought
in. We have conducted surveys and
found places where there are a
large number of malaria-carrying
mosquitoes and in two counties
have taken the blood smears of
children
determine if the
to
malaria organism is present.
Venereal Diseases
"Venereal diseases are a problem
in peacetime and we are well
organized to take care of a normal
lincidence, but now we have the
army and navy concentrated here
and Governor O'Conor has been im-
plored to render assistance.
"We have fifty-four venereal
disease clinics and may have to in-
crease them. An increasing number
of physicians are being taken by
the armed services and it may be
that we'll have to call on trained
nuttes to administer treatment.
"We are proud of our record with
typhoid control; there is now less
than one death per 100,000 popu-
lation; diphtheria is almost a thing
of the past. But all this takes
trained personnel, employes we
cannot pick up on the streets, and the minimum would have to be on the ragged edge for years" so
we must protect our personnel. lowered.
far as the regional association's ac-
"To be frank, I don't see how "Older girls are getting jobs and crediting is concerned and "unless
we have maintained our organiza- the mothers and fathers are em- we make provision for the proper
tion, except that they come here ployed, leaving the younger ones
because we are near the medical
at home alone and they're coming
centers, Hopkins, etc. They cer-
tainly are not staying for high into the Juvenile Court in increas
salaries, and, in fact, many are ing numbers," he said. "At present,
leaving. We must give them some there's no place to send them."
encouragement.
"Foreign Diseases"
faculty, we'll be dropped."
Dr. Holmes recalled that under
the dual system of education, Mary.
land must provide equal facilities
for Negro college students. It will
Inmates, he said, are being fed at
a cost of 17 cents a day in addition not be doing so, he pointed out, if
to produce raised on the school's for lack of funds, Morgan is
"If there is any criticism of this farm. The per capita cost for the dropped from the accredited list.
budget, it is for not providing for normal population of from 70 to 90 Dr. Holmes said he did not ex-
what may happen after the war-girls is $350, "the cheapest institu-pect the teenage draft to affect
malaria and foreign diseases. Dr. tion in Maryland."
Halliday (Dr. Charles Halliday.
epidemiologist) is planning now for He asked that the school's budget
a conference with experts on for- be raised from $40.945 in 1942 to
eign diseases.
the student enrollment, since more
young Negro women are seeking
admission to the college.' In fact,
he said, a waiting list exists.
Asking for an increase in the
budget of the Bureau of Tidewater
$54,395 for 1944 and 1945. The in
"Due to the shortage of physi. crease is necessary, he said, "or
cians we now are using county we'll have to close down." Difficulty
health officers as clinicians and in obtaining personnel, he said, re- Fisheries--from $314,981 this year
want to avoid this as much as pos- duced the normal staff of twenty to $341,871 for 1944 and 1945-
sible. We don't want the State De-two to five persons at one period Edwin Warfield, chairman of the
partment of Health to be going last summer.
Board of Natural Resources, told
into State medicine.
the Governor that higher-paying
Cheltenham's Budget
"A sum of money should be set Vance E. Thomas, superintend-war jobs will make it difficult to
aside to be available to the State ent of Cheltenham School for Boys, maintain the inforcement organi-
Health Department for emergency told the Governor and members of zation if moderate raises in salaries
and post-war work. I am confident the Legislature who attended the are not approved by the Legisla-
there will be a need for it and in session, that at least one third of ture. Many of the employes, he
many places that I couldn't name the Negro reformatory's population said, have been drawn into the
now."
Training School
of 306 properly belonged in the shipbuilding industries.
Crownsville State Hospital for the "On the other hand," said Mr.
James A. Pratt, superintendent Insane.
Warfield, "the increased income
of the Maryland Training School for The 306 now in the institution, being derived by watermen from
Boys at Loch Raven, asked for a he said, is not a normal population, the rise in the price of oysters
budget increase of $40,000 a year. but has been lowered by an accel. has brought many of them back
His current budget is $139.536. A eration of parole and, Mr. Thomas, from war industries to the oyster
large portion of the increase, he added, there is an indication that boats."
said, is to meet the depreciation the intake of the institution is on
Accident Commission
on the property, which is estimated the upgrade as the result of a gen- In the last two years, cases ad-
at $61.000 a year. It also will pro-eral increase in juvenile delin-judicated by the State Industrial
vide increases in salaries for per- quency.
Accident Commission have risen
sonnel and meet higher living costs. He asked for an increase in the from 10,000 in 1940, to 11,900 in
"We're passing through a period 1944-45 budget to $173,353 as com- 1941 to 19.900, an increase of more
of pressure for the care of delin-pared with a 1942 appropriation of than ninety per cent. During the
quents under 11 years of age. Our $151,689.
last war, according to Charles E.
policy has been not to accept boys "The last Legislature allowed for Moylan, chairman of the commis-
under that age and the institution's seventy-two employes at the insti- sion, there were 5,100 claims adju-
population has been held down'tution. We've never had over sixty dicated in 1917, and 5,032 in 1918.
through permission granted by the and frequently as few as fifty. The "This tremendous volume of
board of mangers to boys over 17 people we have working there work is being handled by a hand-
to enlist in the armed forces. could leave today and get increases ful of workers," said Mr. Moylan,
"This hasn't bene wise or good, of from fifty to one hundred per asking for increased appropriations
but we had to do it to keep within cent. in pay, but they're staying on to hire two additional clerks, a
our budget. As it was, we had to trying to help with the job of try-typist, a stenographer and three in-
borrow from the State's revolving ing to make something of the insti-dustrial accident prevention inspec-
fund to buy the winter's supply of tution.
coal.
Dr. D. O. W. Holmes, Negro
"The time is coming, however, president of Morgan State College.
when we'll have to consider taking requested an increase in that in-
inmates under 11. They're now stitution's budget from the 1942
running the streets and getting figure of $216,427 to $246,000 for
into trouble. We have to say now 1944 and 1945.
we can't take care of them; it's
an unfortunate situation."
School For Colored Girls
"On Ragged Edge"
tors.
State Accident Fund
He asked that the appropriation
for 1944 and 1945 be raised to
$125,268, as compared with $102,-
751 allotted for 1942.
J. Howard Holzer, on behalf of
the State Accident Fund, asked
Recalling that the year before from an increased appropriation to
Morgan became a State institution hire an additional investigator and
Howard H. Murphy, Negro, a in 1939, the State had contributed auditor. It is understood that the
member of the board of the Mary- $60,000 toward its operation, Dr. budget for this department also in
land Training School for Colored Holmes asserted that "our problem cludes substantial raises for com
Girls, also reported that while the since 1939 has been to rise to the mission members, now limited t
chool now accepts inmates be-standard of a college."
$500 a year, although these raise
tween the ages of 12 and 16, He added that Morgan "has been were not discussed.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.