As To Cheltenham And Discipline
TO THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir: I have
been much distressed lately over the
situation at Cheltenham and fear great
injustice is being done the personnel
down there. I have known the institu-
tion for nearly thirty years and have
had a succession of boys from there dur-
ing that time.
These hoys lived in my home and
came to look on me almost as a mother.
They confided in me as any small boy
would, and the most severe punishment
they told me of was heing locked up on
bread and water when they needed dis-
cipline. Some of these boys were pretty
tough characters too, but none com-
plained of being beaten or ill-treated
physically. Some of the boys, I am glad
to say, were such good children we be-
came much attached to them.
...
After reading the articles that have
appeared in the papers from time to
time, I am beginning to believe the fire
that is being set to burn under officials
there is because they could not be re-
moved from the institution legally, as
their contract, when it was turned over
to the State, called for the continuance
of all employés. Now I fear this agita-
tion over cruelty to the boys is being
fanned to a flame of indignation, so the
employés can be separated from their
livelihood.
I've known the very able superintend-
ent, Mr. B. B. Sunderland (affection-
ately known to several generations of
boys as "Big Ben"), for many years. As
placing agent for the boys, who were
sent to farm homes, he visited my home
and the boys twice a year. Knowing
him as I do, I cannot believe him guilty
of cruelty, or inhumanity, nor do I be-
lieve he would allow it in a subordinate.
I also believe he, or any other superin-
tendent, would need to govern with a
very firen hand, if he is to keep control
of several hundred colored boys. Many
so incorrigible that they were a menace
and nuisance in their own communities,
and who have no respect for any man
who is easy and unable to enforce his
rules physically.
After all it must be kept in mind that
this is a penal institution and the boys
are sent there to learn to respect some
authority. I challenge any of the critles
to keep such a collection of boys in
order for one week and see if they can
command respect and obedience, unless
backed up by physical discipline.
I fear the present-day leaders of
youth are depending too much on per-
suasion. In raising six fine men and
women in my own family, I found a
little physical punishment would do
much more to clear the atmosphere and
impress a child with the need for obedi-
ency. If this course of training goes
much further I very much fear our
country will be filled with inconsiderate
girls and boys who have no respect for
God or man. Mns. GEORGE DAVIDSON.
Annapolis, Aug. 10.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.