Cites Need For New City Jail,
But Is Sure Plew Is Futile
Grand Jury Subcommittee Says Modern Building Has
Been Advocated For Years Without Results
A subcommittee of the September- blight, a fire hazard and a great sani-
term grand jury yesterday recom- tation expense." the report contended.
mended in a report to the judges of "The city's highways are intended to
the Criminal Court that the Baltimore afford means of quick and ready tran-
City Jail be replaced by a new build- sit for citizens and not to be used as
ing, but added that it was aware of shops, and it is no part of the function
the fact that its recommendation of the city to furnish to a limited
would be ignored.
element of the population unusual
In its report the committee recom- privileges in carrying on their busi-
mended "replacement of the obsoles- ness."
cent building," but further included: "We urgently recommend enact-
"The committee feels it is useless for ment of 18 law to limit them," the
report concluded.
them to lay any great stress upon this
point as the recommendation has been
made by every grand jury for the last
ten or fifteen years without results."
Better Sanitation Urged
In his report to the judges, Robinson
C. Pagon, foreman of the grand jury,
praised the work of the police, the
Board of Liquor License Commis-
sioners and the Domestic Relations
Department. Robert F. Stanton, Police
Commissioner, was commended for
To remedy the least desirable condi-
tions in the jail it was suggested that
improvements be made in the system the "praiseworthy" manner in which
-of locking doors in the cell blocks and
in the sanitary system.
he has checked crime in the city.
Would Sponsor Scouts
d-
ог-
Favorable reports were returned by The entire jury submitted a special
subcommittees on conditions at the report on the question of juvenile de-
Maryland State Penal Farm, the Mont- linquency in the city and recomm
ed that Boy Scout troops be
rose School for Girls, the Penitentiary.
ganized in every police district under
the House of Correction, St. Mary's police supervision. Emphasis on scout-
Industrial School, the Springfield State ing was urged for the "less-chance"
Hospital and the Crownsville State areas of the city.
Hospital.
"This has very valuable by-
The administration building at the product in that the policeman and the
Spring Grove State Hospital was de-
scribed as being "overcrowded" and
not suitable for the housing of mental
patients. The workshop at the hos-
pital was declared to be a fire hazard.
Termed Fire Traps
One subcommittee criticized the fact
that boys at the Cheltenham School for
Colored Boys are given only a spoon
with which to eat their meals, while
the buildings at the Maryland Train-
ing School for Colored Girls were
termed "potential fire traps, as they
have but one stairway and no Gre
escapes."
Another committee dealt in part with
the hazard created by street stalls
around markets.
"The streets are intended for traffic
and the sidewalks for pedestrians.
Pushearts and street stalls are a traffic
hazard, a health problem, a real estate
boy of the streets become friends in-
stead of enemies," the jurymen stated.
The report pointed out that the cいいも
of maintaining a boy in a correctava
institution costs about $30 per year,
while the Community Fund בווינה
annually only $2.67 per Boy Scout.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.