A Negro Superintendent
For A Negro Institution
Of the many troubles which have be-
set the Cheltenham School for colored
boys, one of the most persistent has had
to do with the skin color of its superin-
tendent and staff. An all-white staff was
intolerable to the Negro community. A
mixed staff has been the source of con-
stantly recurring friction, to the detri-
ment of the institution. Now a Negro
superintendent, Mr. R. A. B. Crump, has
been appointed, bringing that particular
controversy to an end.
Those who have followed Chelten-
ham's rather sordid history will wish
him well. He comes to the institution
with a background of experience and
accomplishment. On his shoulders rests
the task of demonstrating the practi-
cability as well as the propriety of Negro
management for Negro institutions.
Other things being equal, the demon-
stration should not be too difficult.
Unfortunately, "other things" are not
equal. Cheltenham falls considerably
short of the ideál, as such institutions go.
The ghosts of innumerable past contro-
versies and administrative ineptitudes
haunt its ancient and badly battered
corridors. Its buildings are an unsatis-
factory medley of obsolescence and im-
provisation. It is overcrowded. It has
for years been a dumping ground for all
sorts of "problem" cases-waiſs in want
of parental care and guidance, delin-
quents, the feeble-minded and the men-
tally ill. The successful administration
of such a hodgepodge institution would
tax the capacities of Solomon himself.
The State is in part responsible for
this sorry situation, and at last has
recognized its responsibility. Provision
for a new institution to replace Chelten-
ham is on the list of the State's post-war
projects. When that is finally built, the
old institution will still be available for
a part of its present task-the care of
feeble-minded Negro boys--and the new
one will then be able to concentrate on
the education and rehabilitation of the
normal delinquents.
:
Until then, we may expect no miracles
from Cheltenham. The people will ob-
serve the efforts of the new superin-
tendent with sympathy and good will.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.