THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL
AND THE PENAL SYSTEM
Maryland's penal system, particularly the
setup for handling young men and boys,
has been criticized severely in the last few
days. Judge Edwin T. Dickerson and Judge
George A. Solter, now presiding in the
Criminal Courts, and Mr. J. Bernard Wells,
State's Attorney, have each emphasized the
need for a special institution for the older
youth definitely disposed toward crime. The
offender they have in mind cannot be sent
to the Maryland Training School for Boys,
the St. Mary's Industrial School or the
Cheltenham School for (Negro) Boys. And
he should not be sent, they say, to the
Penitentiary, the House of Correction or
the penal farm and allowed to mix with
adult, hardened criminals. Such offenders,
however, are being sentenced to these insti-
tutions because there is no other place for
them. Yesterday Mr. Robert F. Stanton,
Police Commissioner, added an emphatic
criticism to the same effect.
That the four attacks on the penal system
came one immediately after the other and
with almost exquisite timing, may have been
accidental. It may also have been accidental
that three of the four critics decided to
speak, on the very heels of the meeting here
last week of the Big Brothers Association.
It will be remembered that at that meeting
Mr. James V. Bennett, director of the Fed-
eral Bureau of Prisons, said that "behind
almost every adult criminal is a juvenile
delinquent." He pleaded for a concerted
drive to "prevent the youth from becoming
an adult criminal."
But accidental or planned timing, the
attacks by the four critics and the address
by Mr. Bennett have served to direct atten-
tion to Maryland's penal system. This at-
tention should not be wasted. Maryland
now has a Legislative Council that functions
between sessions of the General Assembly.
The council might begin to 'consider
whether changes in our penal system are
in order.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.