STATE RELIEF COST
DUE FOR NO CHANGE
Increase In $5,000,000 Not
Needed Now, Patterson Tells
Legislative Council
Dr. Preston Voices Opposi-
tion To "Juvenile House
Of Correction"
By LOUIS J. O'DONNELL
Annapolis, March 14-Members of
the State Legislative Council were
told today that Maryland's relief bill
-barring unforeseen and unpredict-
able conditions-probably will be sta-
bilized at its present figure, approxi-
mately $5,000,000 a year.
This information was given to the
legislators by J. Milton Patterson,
director of the State Department of
Public Welfare, one of four public
officials who made their appearance
today before the special committee of
the General Assembly.
"Analyzing the present situation as
well as it is possible to do at this
time," said Mr. Patterson, "I believe
that this department should not re-
quest an increase in funds for the next
biennium, but should attempt to meet
the need within the present appro-
priation of approximately $5,000,000."
Will Have Figures To Show
"I say this not because I believe
that all need for assistance is now
being taken care of adequately. For
example, general public assistance is
now far from adequate in many cases.
When the time comes for preparing
the budget we shall have the figures
to show what the picture is.
"But, if we feel, after reviewing the
current need, and as best as we can
predict so far ahead, that it is at all
possible to go along with the present
appropriation, I assure you that' it is
my intention and that of the State
board to do so.
"On the other hand, if we feel that
genuine suffering will result without
an increase, then it will be our obliga-
tion to lay before you the true facts
for your consideration."
Others Who Appeared
Besides Mr. Patterson, those who
reported to the Council today were:
DR. GEORGE H. PRESTON, head of the
Board of Mental Hygiene.
CHIEF MAGISTRATE ROBERT FRANCE, of
the Traffic Court.
HARRY C. JONES, State Employment
Commissioner.
In brief, they advised the Council
that:
The State should go slow in setting
up new correctional institutions
(Continued on Page 13, Column 3)
By LOUIS J. O'DONNELL
(Continued from Page 28)
to care for juvenile delinquents
and, on the other hand, should
look to a program that would pool
its current financial expenditures
for child care to obtain the best
results. This was suggested by Dr.
Preston.
The Traffic Court is undermanned
and at least five new clerks are
needed to allow the present staff
of eighteen vacations and con-
duct the business of the tribunal
without a "breakdown."
The institution of a general-pension
system for State employes, on
which the last session of the Gen-
eral Assembly asked data, ulti-
mately would cost the taxpayers
of Maryland in the neighborhood,
of $500,000 a year.
Opposed Ta Proposal
State em-
vance to about $475,000 per annum or
through agencies that place children. gerous thing to tread-on, but we've is desirable "but, in a measure, a
There are twenty-two separate pri- got to think about it."
fiscal necessity."
vate institutions, five private agencies Before announcing that he needed "Its adoption will require State
and five public institutions.
five additional clerks to keep up with ployes to pay their share of the cost
"Any talk about building new insti- the work of the Traffic Court, Magis- of their retirement," he said, "while,
tutions should be put off long enough trate France informed members of the under the present law, the State pays
to see what can be done with existing Council that there have been a twelve the entire cost. The present law, which
institutions. And you must consider per cent. increase in the number of now costs $58,500 per annum, will ad-
that you would have to build four cases brought before the tribunal, or, 7.12 per cent. of the payroll in time,
buildings if you would undertake to 96,685 through the ten months from according to the calculations of an
create a new type of instittion for the May, 1939, to the end of February. actuary, and it would seem to be the
care of these problem children. You'd
During the same period, he reported, best possible economy to make the
have to build one for white children, there has been a fifty-two per cent. proposed change as quickly as the
male and female, and one each for drop in dismissals and an increase in State's financial position will permit."
Mr. Jones reported that the Salary
the ten-month period of $45,720 in the Standards Board, created by the last
Legislature to study the State's rate
Meanwhile, he asserted, the Traffic of pay with a view to correcting in-
Court is carrying on with eighteen equalities, will report to Governor
civilian clerks and a pay roll of $25,974, O'Conor within the next few weeks.
in contrast with the old system of hav- The employment commissioner de-
ing policemen act in a clerical capac- scribed as "ridiculous" the Veterans'
ity, under which system there were Preference Act passed at the last ses-
twenty-four employes and an annual sion of the Legislature, under which
pay roll of $56,000.
veterans, in addition to receiving an
additional five points in an examina-
The greater portion of the State Em- tion, automatically go to the head of
the colored,"
New Building Suggested
Dr. Preston suggested that the mem-
bers of the council might consider the
erection of a building at Spring Grove
Hospital for the treatment of insane
children and that the Board of Mental
Hygiene would be glad to accept the
responsibility for the care of them.
Mr. Patterson suggested to the legis-
lators that instead of setting up sepa-
collection of fines and costs.
Report By Jones
rate juvenile courts in each county ployment Commissioner's report was the list and, under the statute, "must"
they consider the designation of mem- devoted to a recording of the activity be appointed.
bers of the bench in the, various cir-
cuits to deal with cases in which chil- of his office since the 1939 legislative
dren up to the age of 18 are involved.
session.
He told the legislators that Mary
"One of the most difficult phases of land's merit system. laws were so
the present child welfare program," drawn that no change will be neces-
he said, "is the commitment of chil-
sary in the statutes to bring the State
dren by magistrates, juvenile courts into corformity with Federal social
and other courts.
Held "Highly Desirable"
security legislation requiring employes
of the Unemployment Compensation
"It would be highly desirable if a Board, the Department of Welfare and
Both Dr. Preston and Mr. Patterson uniform juvenile court law could be Department of Health to be merit sys-
discussed at some length with mem-
enacted giving the local units the tem employes before they can dis-
option of setting up a juvenile court, pense or administer Federal funds.
bers of the council the recent proposal with special qualifications for the
that the State provide an institution judge, or designating the Circuit
for the incarceration of psychopathic Court judge to act as a juvenile judge
delinquents. And both were opposed in all cases where children under 18
to the proposal.
Dr. Preston pointed fout that as
head of the State institutions for the
years of age are involved.
"A child should not be removed
from his own home and committed to
others until all facilities are made
insane he was not charged with look- available to the judge, either through
ing after so-called juvenile delin- clinical facilities or by the Depart-
quents, but, as the result of his ex- ment of Welfare, and should never be
perience in the hospitals over which placed in any private institution or
he has jurisdiction, he was able to home not, approved by the Depart-
speak with authority on the problem ment of Public Welfare...
présented.
"In some of the counties of the State
This he did in conjunction with
à very fine relationship has developed
between the Circuit Court judge, or
other proposals he laid before the
the juvenile judge, and the Welfare
council: Seeking increased compensa- Department, for the diagnosis of all
tion for attendants at the hospitals for children's cases coming before the
the insane, requesting that the State court. Since these facilities are avail-
undertake to insure its hospital em- able in every local unit of the State,
ployes and make some provision for serious consideration should be given
a retirement system.
to the use of them,
Favors Strengthening Law
He also said that the State law with
reference to insane persons, should be
strengthened to permit authorities to disorders or in the incorrigible class,
force relatives of patients who are the institutions now devoted to their
able to pay for the patients' treat care, in a great measure, could be
ments to reimburse the hospitals. depopulated.
Refer's To Study Of Home
Mr. Pattersen said that he believes,
with a proper State setup for dealing
with children suffering from mental
Dr. Preston advised the legislators "We recently analyzed an institution
that the State now is paying out, in that had twenty-six inmates," he said,
"and after a study it was found that
special appropriations to employes only six of them were in such condi-
who have been injured in the course tion that they could not be placed in
of their duties, approximately enough other homes.
to pay the premiums for insurance "But we're going to continue to have
coverage for the staffs of all institu- to deal with the feeble-minded ques-
tion until you pass a good steriliza-
tions for the insane,
The Maryland laws with respect to tion law.
the insane, Dr. Preston added, need a "I have seen four or five generations
general overhauling to eliminate du- of feeble-minded in one family: Why
plication and inconsistencies.
go on? Go out to the Rosewood Train-
ing School and you can see three gen.
Opposition Voiced
In voicing his opposition to the erations of feeble-minded. It's a dan-
creation of a "juvenile house of cor-
rection," Dr. Preston told the mem-
bers of the council that it is impos-
sible in dealing with persons suffering
from mental troubles to "draw the
line sharply on calendar or psycho-
logical ages.".
"There is and can be no one insti-
tution," he continued, "that can give
proper treatment to a juvenile de-
fective of 10 or 12 years of age and,
say, a sex delinquent of 16.
"You can't solve the problem on
that basis. It's just like having one
bottle of medicine and giving a dose
of it to everybody who has a fever.
There is no satisfactory working dofi-
nition for what we are calling delin-
quency.
Cites Case Next Door To Him
"Delinquency. in one sense depends
a lot on the attitude of the police in a
particular neighborhood or on the
school teachers. Just the other. day
there were two kids in a vacant house
next to me. Instead of calling the po-
lice, I called the agent for the house
and, because I didn't call the police
and they were not taken to the Juve-
nile Court, they are not delinquents
today.
"Defective delinquents can't be
lumped into a group. They're partly
blind, partly deaf and partly crippled.
You have them, for example, in Chel-
tenham with syphilis, gonorrhea and
tuberculosis. The trouble is we lack
an, effective diagnostic center.
"There is a small group of children
who are insane and should recover,
with proper treatment. It is not fair
to put them in an institution for de-
linquents.
Offers "Only Solution"
"Maryland is such a small State
that you've got to stop and consider
carefully a proposal that you build an
institution to take care of every type
of child with which we have to deal.
"The only solution I see in this mat-
ter would be the development of
specialized facilities in existing insti-
tutions. I think we should establish
auniform juvenile court system in
every county and have diagnostic fa-
cilities at some center.
"I think we should pool all our in-
stitutional resources for the care of
juveniles in the State. For example,
you have the parole officers of the
Maryland Training School for Boys,
of. Cheltenham and the Maryland
Training School for Girls traveling all
over the State, and each institution
has its own parole officers.
Children's Bureau Favored.
"There should be established a chil-
dren's bureau which would have
supervision over all work done with
State money. The juvenile courts
would commit charges to this bureau
and the bureau then, after proper di-
agnosis, would decide which institu-
tion is best fitted for the particular
case.
"The tSate of Maryland is spending
$897,000 aar in the care of children
in public private institutions and
Favors Proposed Change
Recalling that a bill to establish a
State pension system had been pre-
sented to the 1939 Legislature, but was
not pressed because it was believed the
matter needed additional, study, Mr.
Jones advised the members of the
Council that such a system, not only