Republican Party's Platform
The Republican State platform, adopted yesterday at the gasoline in Maryland to the same level
Republican State convention, praised the work done by the ad-as is maintained in our neighboring
ministration of Governor Nice and pledged continuation of certain
recently inaugurated changes and adoption of certain new ones.
Excerpts from the platform outlining these proposals follow:
PREAMBLE
... During the past four years,
we have had at Annapolis, in Harry
W. Nice, a leader-wise, patient, un-
States.
AUTOMOBILE LICENSE FEES
The Republican convention of 1934
pledged itself to procure a reduction
in the cost of tags to a flat rate of $2
and Governor Nice made this an issue
of his campaign. The Democratic party
must answer for the failure of Gov-
adequate revenue for aid to the needy
may be provided.
COLORED CITIZENS
[Cheltenham Institution for colored
derstanding, resourceful, ever-pres-delinquent children has been taken ernor Nice's efforts to have such a bill
ent at his post of duty, tireless in over by the State] and vigorous steps passed by the Legislaturel. We believe
his efforts, and unswervingly faithful are being taken and will be taken to that a substantial reduction in the cost
to the best interests of the people. correct the notorious faults of its pre- of license tags is feasible and should
He has been unfairly criticized by an vious administration. We pledge be made, provided there be no diver-
unfriendly press, and grudging and ourselves to a repeal of the present sion of the gasoline tax.
sparing have been words of praise... unconstitutional and totally inequitable
law which differentiates between the
VOTING MACHINES We believe the fair-minded
EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES
We take pride in the efficient and
pay of colored and white school teach-non-political administration of public
ers, and we pledge ourselves to the education in Maryland during this
people of Maryland appreciate the ef- enactment of a law which will remove administration. We pledge our-
forts of the Republican Party in the
any discrimination as to the pay of selves to a continuation of the educa-
legalization and adoption, by Balti- white and colored school teachers. All tional progress... to an increase of
more city, of voting machines and institutions having complete Negro teachers to an increase of trans-
the minimum salary schedule for all
of permanent registration, and we ad-population should be operated by an portation facilities for white (and col-
vocate and pledge ourselves to the adequately trained colored personnel, ored children and the elimination
passage of legislation to extend the
We recommend the establish through consolidation of one-teacher
use of voting machines in such coun-ment of a State university for Negroes, schools.
ties as desire them.
EQUAL RIGHTS OF WOMEN
Our party completely performed the
in connection with which the adapta-
bility of Morgan College should be
favorably considered.
STATE ROADS
UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
...
The Republican party pledges
itself to continue its interest in the
university to maintain high standards,
pledges of our convention of 1934 by
recognizing the equal right of women This administration has com- to meet the demands that the people
to participate in public affairs State's main system, including ten in the State's financial condition.
pleted and paved 242 miles of the of the State make for its services, sub-
ject, of course, to whatever reasonable
with the election of Governor Nice, miles of asphalt streets built in the limitations may be imposed by the
women. for the first time. were ap- city of Baltimore; twenty miles more
pointed to many important State of- of the State's roads are graded and
SOIL EROSION
fices. We pledge ourselves to a drained, ready for surfacing; ninety- The widespread adoption by our
continuance of the policy of broaden- seven miles of existing State roads] farmers of the provisions of the Mary-
ing the influence of women in the have been resurfaced.
State government.
LABOR
As to land Soil Conservation District laws.
maintenance, the cost under this ad- approved by Governor Nice on May
ministration has been reduced $193.57 28, 1937, will materially reduce the
Our pledges to labor have been re-per mile. We recommend, in addition ravages of soil erosion and should re-
deemed in full. We advocate a to the future road building program. sult in the saving of millions of dol-
competent Labor Board to consist of that Route No. 213. throughout its en- lars. The Republican party pledges its
three members, authorized and em-tire length from Elkton to Ocean City, cooperation in promoting this work.
powered to regulate and control dis- be widened and straightened; that and further pledges its aid to Mary-
putes between employe and employ-the Crain highway be widened with land farmers to help them overcome
er. We pledge our every effort stabilized shoulders and resurfaced; their erosion problems and thus pro-
to the passage of legislation which that an alternate highway be con- tect their land.
will more nearly equalize the rate of structed from Baltimore to Washing-
Compensation to injured employes to ton, with dual lanes that U. S.
an amount commensurate with that Route No. 40... be modernized where
earned while employed and to elimi- needed.... We advocate State-owned
nate the waiting period for injured ferries to be operated by the State
workers entitled to compensation.. Roads Commission, and to be financed
Maryland projects, where possible,
should be undertaken by and carried
on by Marylanders.... We advocate
a careful study... with the ultimate
view of finding a solution.
INCOME TAX
We advocate, if the constitutional
on a self-liquidating basis.
GASOLINE TAX DIVERSION
Governor Nice has constantly reiter-
ated his opposition to the diverting of
highway gasoline and automobile tax
funds to general treasury use.
FORESTRY
Nowhere in the whole field of con-
servation has the State been more
profligate with its resources than in
its forests. Rehabilitation should
take place in two main directions, one
through the acquisition of present cut-
over areas and the acquirement of
otherwise waste lands; with subse-
quent replanting so that they will
again become forests. The other should
be through development of wood lots
on privately owned farms.
Republican party is particularly cog-
nizant of the fact that Frederick.
The
amendment authorizing a graduated GASOLINE PRICE INEQUALITY
State income tax be ratified, that the We pledge ourselves to take all meas-
ates be such as to insure that ade-fures necessary to bring the price of (Continued on Page 4, Column 4) [
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Republican Party's Platform
(Continued from Page 24)
Washington. Allegany and Garrett
counties offer such great possibilities
for recreation that they should become
the playground for those who love
the mountain regions but who now
largely go to the mountains of other
States.
AGRICULTURE
... There are certain fundamental
principles upon which the success of
Maryland agriculture depends. Some
of these for which the Republican
party pledges itself are: To eliminate
Bang's disease from all (dairy) herds,
ments thereby kept on a thorough, 5. Extension of the program for the
business basis.
THE MERIT SYSTEM
We pledge ourselves to a continu-
ance of rigid enforcement of the Merit
System of Maryland. It is now being
administered with efficiency, vision, 7. Provision to assist the seafood in-
and utterly free from politics. We
favor a standardization of salaries for
Merit System employes. We be-
lieve also that the law should be
changed vesting reasonable discretion
in department heads with respect to
pay in case of illness.
DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING
6. Provision for the employment of
additional public health nurses
with special reference to their ac-
tivities in reducing infant mortal-
ity and the maternal death rate.
dustry in producing products
which will meet the requirements
of the Federal Government for
interstate shipment.
MENTAL INSTITUTIONS
Upon the advent of Governor Nice's
Administration he found that our in
stitutions for the care of the mentally
ill were totally inadequate to provide
highest point in years. Its bonds have terests to subserve, ought not to be
sold, all through this Administration, permitted to exert their influence in
at the lowest coupon rate and the low favor of any change inical to a
est interest cost at which Maryland reasonable and temperate control of
has ever been able to obtain money.
the manufacture and sale of alcoholic
A reduction in the tax burdens is drinks
highly desirable. At this time, with
conditions as they now exist, to make
any definite recommendations con-
cerning methods of taxation, is idle,
and any statement would be made
only for the purpose of vote getting.
It is highly necessary that there be
made a thorough examination of our
State system of taxation, with a view
to such modification and equalization
as will secure an equitable distribu-
tion of tax burdens. We definitely
pledge our party to the practice of
governmental economy.
PRIMARY ELECTION LAW
and to give its support toward provid- As this department expands the for the needs of the increasing popu- The recent Democratic primary elec-
ing funds for further indemnities so scope of its operations. it is becoming lation. Hospitals are now enabled to tion has demonstrated the unwisdom
that the farmers' losses shall be re-more and more valuable to the State, treat these mentally ill patients and re- of the first and second choice pro-
duced to as low a point as practicable saving the State large sums which turn them to their families.
visions of the primary election law.
to support the dairy people of the were heretofore paid on consultation We pledge our party to a continuance which have resulted not only in con-
State in helping them to maintain fees and engineering advice. We of this humane and economic policy fusion and in the apparent disfran-
their present markets and to establish pledge our candidates to a continua- toward these unfortunates, who are chisement of many voters, but has
new markets whenever possible... to tion of these economical policies. entitled to every consideration from caused uncertainty and delay. We pro-
a policy of development of the meat-
VETERAN AID
producing industry of the State, for We pledge our party to furnish
the benefit of both farmers and pack-adequate monetary assistance neces-
to work whole-heartedly in the sary in securing provision for sick.
interest of the tobacco growers of disabled and indigent veterans and
Southern Maryland to help them regain their families.
ers
their foreign markets and to help them
es 'ablish better conditions under which
STATE POLICE
society.
PENAL ADMINISTRATION
pose, without affecting the present
unit system in nominating conventions,
to change the law so that a plurality
of votes shall be sufficient for the
nomination as it is for the election of
candidates for office. This is the only
way to enforce the popular will as it
is expressed in the polling places.
INTENTIONS LAW
We pledge our party to a continua-
tion of policies which make for con-
tentment as far as that is possible
among persons deprived of their lib-
erty, and at the same time assure the
law-abiding people of Maryland of
every reasonable effort to lessen crime. REPEAL OF DECLARATION OF
For a further reduction of
to dispose of their tobacco in home fatalities upon the highways of the
markets to cooperate fully with State, a rigid and impartial enforce- The party pledges itself to a con-
the farm organizations of the State in ment of highway laws is absolutely tinued progressive policy in the man- The Republican party, for many
order to secure for them the greatest necessary, and therefore, we believe agement of the penal problems of the years has advocated the complete re-
possible benefits from the Federal Gov- that this arm of the State should be State which will provide for proper peal of the declaration of intentions
ernment
law. We pledge ourselves to recal
to give the farmers better enlarged in every direction, for which ers, together with a closer superviset this obnoxious statute and give all
reason it is important that its per- ers, together with a closer superviset this obnoxious statute and give all
marketing facilities.
CONSERVATION
sonnel be increased, enabling it to
render additional service, in coopera-
tion with the Baltimore city police.
and county constabularies.
SOCIAL WELFARE
Considering the splendid im-
provement that has been made in the
conservation of the State's natural re-
sources during this administration, we
shall endeavor to increase the appro- ent administration has been a model
priation for oyster propagation for other States. Unemployment in-
and extend the facilities for research
work at the Biological Laboratory
In this important subject, the pres-
surance compensation has been estab-
lished, as have other forms of relief.
and increase the activities for the Old-age assistance, aid to dependent
protection of the fish against the re- and crippled children, to the blind.
curring of pollution.
case study and classification of prisor..
policy of after-care on parole.
CARE OF DELINQUENT BOYS
We recommend that the State of
Maryland take a forward step in the
care and development of Fortunate
boys, and establish an institution of
medium security, in which such boys,
while they will be under restraint pre-
venting escape, will nevertheless be
taught useful occupations, discharged
free from the stigma of being crim-
inals and rehabilitated to the point of
The Repub- and administrative costs of the Board becoming useful citizens.
lican party will oppose any effort for of State Aid and Charities' relief
a leasing law other than that now division, during this administration.
existing.
were, for the first time, sufficiently
systematized to enable it to be in-
cluded in the State budget.
PUBLIC UTILITY RATES
The record for reduction of rates
of public utilities during this ad-
PUBLIC HEALTH
ministration, without usual litigation We pledge ourselves to remedy the
expense to the taxpayers, is one of
Which this administration can be just-
ly proud. Our party pledges itself
to a continuation of the policy of rate
reduction.
STATE AUDITING DEPARTMENT
We recommend that the State Audit-
ing Department be allowed addi-
tional funds so that it may increase its
personnel. It is essential that the
State's money, spent by the various
departments, be properly, regularly
and systematically audited, and the
administration of the State depart-
following needs:
1. The establishment of four addi-
THE JUDICIARY
The selection of judges should be
conducted in such a way as to assure
the people that only lawyers of the
highest type, possessing char.. er,
ability and judicial temperament, shall
be elevated to the bench. In order to
accomplish this, we propose that the
tional branch bacteriological lab- judiciary shall be removed from poli-
oratories.
2. More intensive efforts in the con-
trol of venereal diseases.
3. Provision for the free distribution
of pneumonia serum to call cases.
4. Facilities for educating all the citi-
zens of the State to the necessity
of periodic medical examinations
to be made by their family physi-
cians for the purpose of detecting
incipient cases of organic disease
with particular reference to heart
ailments and cancer.
ties and that a system shall be de-
vised whereby the independence, in-
telligence and integrity of judges shall
be properly safeguarded. We shall give
serious study to the system in vogue in
other States, and decide upon the one
most suitable for Maryland and best
adapted to fulfill the purpose.
STATE FINANCES AND
TA:.ATION
Under the present Administration
Maryland's credit has reached the
citizens, otherwise entitled. the right
to vote in Maryland.
LIQUOR LAWS
We pledge our party to such amend-
ments of these laws as will correct
abuses arising under the present sys-
tem. Pressure lobbies, maintained by
groups having their own selfish in-
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.