CHELTENHAM
SCHOOL STAFF
IS BEWILDERED
At Loss To Understand
Storm Precipitated By
Jones' Criticism
Doing The Best They Can
With Limited Facilities,
Says Sunderland
Mr. Hopkins, a member of The
Sun staff, has paid a visit to the
Cheltenham School for Boys,
which at present is a center of
controversy, and his impressions
ure outlined herewith
By FRANK S. HOPKINS
Cheltenham, Md., May 21-There are
two principal impressions that one gets
on making a tour of inspection of the
Cheltenham School for Boys, the bit-
terly criticized Negro reformatory
whose board now is defying the State's
attempted reorganization.
The first is that the institution is
sightly, pleasantly situated and as
physical property is fairly efficiently
operated, considering its lack of funds.
The second is that it is sadly lacking.
in facilities for the kind of creative
training of inmates that would fit them
for successful adjustment outside
when they are released.
Sought Good Morale
Leaving aside the question of per-
sonal efficiency, which it is hardly fair
to judge after one visit, one gets the
feeling that the institution has been
content in the past merely to keep a
good morale among the boys and at-
tend to their physical needs. Except
among the Negro teaching staff, which
is too small in numbers to accomplish
much, there is little evidence of what
might be termed a social point of view.
To describe the physical equipment
first, the institution consists of a group
of brick buildings in the center of a
1,200-acre farm bordering the Crain
Highway six miles south of Upper
Marlboro and forty-six miles from f
Baltimore,
と
Driving in from the highway, one
first glimpses rolling fields, green and a
well-kept, then a curving avenue off
larve shade trees which leads to thel..
front portico of the main administra
tion building.
Land Given By Enoch Pratt
This building, on the crest of a kno
overlooking the farm, is a stately an
sizable brick structure erected in 187:
shortly after the land for the institu
tion was donated by Enoch Prat
Baltimore merchant philanthropist. I
provides office space and living quar
ters for the administrative staff, an
has a dining hall at one end for the
larger boys.
Behind the main building stretche:
what might be termed the campus o
the institution-a broad lawn, neatly
landscaped with hedges and grave
walks and extending over five or six
acres of level ground. A number of
trees give it a shady appearance.
On each side of the lawn are three barber shop and carpenter shop. There boys not interested in baseball, and
two-story brick houses, known as cot is also a shoe repair shop. Uniforms are there are no indoor recreational facili-
tages, where the 423 inmates of the cut and stitched in the institution. In- ties except such games as the boys
institution are housed. Each cottage is cidentally, boys wear work clothes can devise when crowded into their
restricted to one age group. The most through the week. military uniforms
crowded houses 81 boys.
Artificial Lake
To the east of the main campus is
for Sunday drill and church services.
Three Rooms For School
Three large rooms in one of the more
cottages.
Most boys at Cheltenham can be
paroled in a year or two if they behave
an artificial lake and the school heat- distant cottages are used for school well, but there is little evidence that
ing plant. To the west are, first, a purposes. Of the 423 boys, 270 go to they can return to society better for
group of frame buildings used for school, half in the morning and half in their experience. Most of them seem to
various recreational and vocational the afternoon. Several of the classes drift back to the institution sooner or
purposes, and secondly, barns, stables have from fifty to sixty pupils, and Jater.
and sheds used for farm purposes.
maintained and operated.
the four young Negro teachers have an The administrative staff, headed by
B. B. Sunderland, is bewildered by the
The farm buildings, like the farm all but impossible task. Not only are they unable to give storm that has raged about its ears
itself, give every indication of being their pupils, most of whom are psycho- since Harry C. Jones, State Employ-
fficient bar maintainre handsome Hol-logical problems, any kind of in- ment Commissioner, classified twenty-
dividual attention. but the presence of six of the school's fifty-seven employes
illiterate and retarded boys of 16 in the as unfit for the State service.
stein cattle, of which Cheltenham has
about one hundred, and several hun-
dred hogs, apparently purebred Hamp-
shires. There are twenty-seven mules
απλο number of flocks of poultry.
About 800 acres of the farm are cul
tivated, yielding corn, hay and whea
to feed the live stock and poultry
vegetables to feed the staff and in
mates. The school runs its own can
nery to make the vegetables last the
year round. With labor plentiful, i
thus raises most of the food it needs
Only One Of Kind In State
a restless and turbulent classroom.
The school rooms are the dingiest on quate job. As Mr. Sunderland sees it,
the place and in dire need of repair. they are doing the best they can with
The avowed educational aim at very limited facilities, and any im-
Cheltenham is to teach the boys trades provement is depenrent upon an ex-
at which they can earn their living, penditure of money which is not yet
Actually, however, most of those over available.
16 work on the farm and there is no He does not see the personnel prob-
attempt to give then even agricultural lem as merely a matter of getting
instruction.
Vocational Teacher Engaged
To build up a vocational training
As the only Maryland institution for curriculum, Ellis R. Deans, a graduat
juvenile Negro delinquents, Chelten- of Hampton Institute with ten years
ham draws its population largely from experience in this field, was engaged
the courts throughout the State. The last year, and gradually is getting som
commiting ages are from 10 to 16, al- equipment installed.
though boys may and frequently do His three assistants, also college
remain until they are 20 or 21.
graduates, are
trained in variou
Their living conditions, while they trades and are equipped to do the
could hardly be described as com- work when facilities are ready and
fortable, are reasonably decent in additional teachers are provided to
view of the little money Cheltenham free them from the drudgery of rudi-
has had. In some of the cottages, how- mentary classroom instruction.
ever, there are obviously too many The teachers are working under most
boys for the sleeping space in the trying conditions, but give every ap-
second-ficor dormitories. Their nar- pearance of keen interest in their work
row cots sometimes are spaced only a and a grasp of the social implications
foot or two apart, with from sixty of their problem. At present about all
to eighty in one room.
they can do is look forward to a better
In addition to its dormitory, each day when the State will provide
cottage also has a large common room, enough money to finance their work
occupying the first floor, with smaller properly.
rooms for supplies, for administrative Some Over Average Intelligence
functions and for cells in which the
Although many boys are of subnor-
refractory are incarcerated for dis-
ciplinary reasons. Cottage basements, mal intelligence, others are above the
which are above ground, have showe
rooms, work rooms and sometimes :
recreational room.
average. One of the teaching staff
estimated that the intelligence quotient
of the average boy would run between
80 and 90.
Tests by which the boys could be
Cottages Clean And Neat
The cottages are clean, neat and ir classified mentally, and facilities for
good repair. Most of them have a radic dealing with them by such classifica-
in the common room, available to boys tions. are keenly desired by the teach-
in their free time, and such indoor ing staff. At present there is absolutel
games as checkers, dominoes and ping no provision for psychological study o
pong. Although buildings are brick the inmates.
they are not fireproof.
For recreation, the boys play base.
Since the institution's hospital burned ball most of the year, although some
last summer, the basement of one cot-soccer is played. The supervisor of
tage is used as an infirmary. There is boys. John S. Beckwith, is an expe.
one nurse, and the school is served on rienced baseball coach and has or-
part-time basis by an elderly ganized twenty-eight baseball and soft-
.
physician.
ball teams.
Other cottages have in their base- There is a lack of playground equip-
ments rooms for a laundry, tailor shop. ment which might serve the smaller
However, employes are far from con-
vinced that they are doing an inade-
qualified employes for the various
posts, but as also getting people who
will be satisfied to live the isolated
institutional life.
Mr. Jones' criticsms were largely
directed at the personnel handling the
boys in the cottages. The teachers and
office staff came through with flying
colors, as did Mr. Beckwith, but Mr.
Jones recommended that Mr. Sunder-
land be demoted to make room for an
experienced educator as head of the
institution.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.