CONTINUING SCANDAL
Cheltenham, the reform school for colored
boys, has been a continuing stench for more
years than most people can remember. It
was a discredit to the State when it was
run as a private institution. Now that it is
publicly owned and operated, tales of in-
competence and cruelty continue to emanate
from it.
The explanation offered for the situation
is that, under the terms of the law by
which the State took title, it was impossible
to oust the previous management. It is a
fact that Governo: Nice asked the members
of the board to resign so that he might
appoint their successors and that the mem-
bers refused. It is further true that Colonel
Jones, the State Employment Commissioner,
did make a valiant but unsuccessful fight to
replace the present personnel with one that
had stood the test of the State Merit System.
But the legal obstacles thus cited are
hardly a sufficient excuse for the continuation
of a régime which one grand jury after
another has seen fit to condemn. The people
of Maryland pay for the support of the place.
It is hardly creditable that, having control
of the purse strings, they are forever estopped
from saying how their oney should be spent.
Governor O'Conor is a resourceful man,
both in politics and in the law. It should not
be beyond his capacity to find a way to break
through the barrier which the board and
managers of Cheltenham have set up about
themselves, so that some light may shine in
the dark places.
THE
OPPOSITION
Mayor Jackson issued a call. Monday night
for the defeat in the coming Mayoralty elec-
tion of City Councilman Daniel Ellison. Why
Mr. Jackson in his exuberance singled 'out
Mr. Ellison. for special slaughter was not
made clear. It probably was due to the fact
that Mr. Ellison is a Republican breakwater
against which Democratic hopes have been
dashed for sixteen long years. For twelve of
those years Mr. Ellison was the sole repre-
sentative of his party in the City Council.
All this can mean but one thing. A majority
of those who go to the polls in the Fourth
district like the representation they get
through Mr. Ellison.
۱
It is not difficult to applaud the Fourth
district for the support it has given Mr.
Ellison in the past or to hope the support will
be continued next month. As the lone Re-
publican in the City Council, Mr. Ellison has
served a useful purpose. His has been too
often a voice in the wilderness, but the voice
was there if the Democrats wished to follow
it. Without Mr. Ellison in his usual place in
the front row, meetings of the City Council
would be even more deadly than they are
now. Mr. Jackson might be "satisfied" if Mr.
Ellison does not go back to the City Council,
but why wreck what has become a public
institution merely to please Mr. Jackson's
too ardent partisanship?
:
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.