IT
Thirty-five Years at Morgan College
RETIRING, DR. SPENCER LEAVES
A COLLEGE BUILT BY HIS ACTIVITY
by
GRACE S. PARKS
LT was in 1002 that Dr. John F. Goucher,
from whom Goucher College took its name,
wrote to the principal of the Hudson River
Institute at Claverack, N. Y., and invited
him to head Morgan College-at that time
a small Baltimore institution with two strug-
gling branches, a woefully small faculty and
student body, and a deficit.
The Claverack principal, John Oakley
Spencer, already knew about Morgan, and
was aware of the need for a much more ener-
getic school for the higher education of Ne-
groes. He accepted Dr. Goucher's tender, but
with the condition that the board of trustees
grant him the privilege of mapping out and
carrying out his own program, which he made
clear was for swift improvement of the col-
lege's educational facilities. How faithfully
the board's pledge was kept is illustrated by a
member's humorous summary of its be-
havior: "He proposes; we agree," he ob-
served. It seems to have been a good policy,
anyway.
Now, having spent thirty-five years of
hard driving for Morgan College, Dr. Spencer
will retire from the presidency next Wednes-
day, to be succeeded by Dwight O. W.
Holmes, lately dean of Howard University's
Graduate School. As president emeritus, how
ever, Dr. Spencer will continue his contact
with the college until the stadium is com-
pleted and a library erected. The stadium is
a Federal project; the Maryland General
Assembly this year appropriated $100,000 for
a library building.

THE LIBRARY in the St. Paul street home of
Dr. Spencer is lined with bookshelves, with a
new book occupying a place of prominence.
It is called "A Resolution: a faint gesture to
indicate the permanent place which he will
hold in the love and esteem of those who this
day have gathered to honor him.. ." It is
signed by the four hundred persons who met
to pay tribute to the veteran educator at a
testimonial banquet last May.
That was a notable occasion for a modest
scholar, but Dr. Spencer laughingly says he
attracted still more attention on one occasion
in 1857. During that year people for miles
around visited his birthplace on a farm near
the Wyoming Valley, Pennsylvania. The at-
traction in the old red house there was the
1 pound 7-ounce baby of Sarah Rachel and
Henry A. Spencer named John Oakley.
The farm clung to a spur of mountains on
the Indian trail where the Delawares had
fashioned arrowheads. Dr. Spencer cannot
understand why his grandfather, who went to
Pennsylvania to survey Connecticutis "West-
ern Reserve," ever settled in such a rough
and rugged place, but maybe it was to de-
yelop a rugged grandson.
When a weaving "bee" day arrived and the
neighbors brought rags to weave carpets at
his home, Dr. Spencer asys, his mother was
ill. But the "bee" had to be fed, so he cooked
the dinner, carrying the ingredients for the
cake and biscuits to his mother's bedside,
where, following her directions, he prepared
them for baking. When some one asked who
cooked the dinner the abashed boy hung his
head and fled from the house.
Dr. Spencer remembers, too, the vicissi-
tudes of farm life following the Civil War,
when barter was the medium of exchange for
commodities. Two events connected with that
period are etched on his memory; one, the
- return of the soldiers at the close of the war;
the other, his grief-stricken father staggering
into the house and crying out, "Lincoln is
shot!"
MOST of his 80-year span of life has been
spent in. schools and colleges. When he was
a baby, in order to relieve his mother of
his care, a cousin, who taught a "select
school," carried him to school with her. At
the age of 5 he was a pupil in a small country
school. When 10 he walked two and one-half
miles to a "select school," taught by the only
college graduate in that part of the country.
A few years later he attended the Keystone
Academy in Factoryville, and then Wyoming
Seminary. His bachelor of arts and doctor of
philosophy degrees are from Illinois Wes-
leyan, his master of arts degree from Colum-
bia University. He also studied at Oxford.
From Washington College came his honorary
degree of doctor of laws, in recognition of
achievements in educational work.
Always he has had an insatiable craving
for knowledge. A magic-lantern show he saw
when a small boy started him on a finding-
out-why crusade that has continued through
out his lifetime. The lantern made him buy
his first book to learn more of the subject.
A country doctor told him about physiology,
and he promptly got a book on the subject,
studying it at odd times and on rainy days.
A Presbyterian minister interested him in
Latin, and while plowing he covered the
equivalent of one school year's work in that
subject. At the beginning of each furrow he
opened the book and selected one conjuga-
tion or one declension to learn, repeating it
continuously down the length of the field. At
the end of each furrow he opened the book
again, this time to see if he had memorized his
selection correctly.
BUT BACK of all else, in his impulse for and
determination to have an education, he states,
was the pattern for life placed before him by
his parents. During long winter evenings his
mother, whose ancestors fought in Scottish
battles for land freedom, and his father,
whose progenitors had been pioneers in the
Connecticut Valley, read to their four chil-
dren. John Oakley drank in the poetry, the
classics, the stories about history and travel,
and the solid stuff that his sober parents
poured out for him.
It was while lying on the floor there, in
front of a huge open fire, crunching apples
and popcorn, that he was filled with a pas-

JOHN OAKLEY SPENCER, MORGAN'S RETIRING PRESIDENT
sionate desire somehow to share in the fund
of knowledge possessed by those who painted
the amazing word pictures he heard and vis-
ualized through their interpretations.
The enchantment of the idea would not
let him go. It drove him to translate into
reality his own desire for an education. So,
when he read a story about a boy working to
pay his way through college, he found the
solution to his problem, without any financial
backing.
His first job paid him 50 cents a day, for
which he plowed from 6 o'clock in the morn-
ing until dark. Once, on his parents' farm, he
raised a crop of buckwheat which netted him
$300, and that was a real aid to college. At the
age of 17, during vacations, his teaching
career began. His salary at the first school he
taught was $25 a month, "with board around."
AT one of his rural schools there was a tra-
dition that the new teacher should be rolled
down a snow-covered hill. To his pupils'
amazement he laughed with them over the
prank. But when school opened he said to
them: "You have had your way out there,
and I let you. I'll have my way in here, and
you'll let me." And they did.
By the year 1879 Dr. Spencer was a high-
school principal. The year 1883 found him in
Japan, where he helped to establish and
taught in the Tokyo Anglo-Japanese College,
now Aoyama Gakuin College (Green Moun-
tain Hall of Learning). He had gone to the
Orient under the Board of Foreign Missions
of the Methodist Episcopal Church and re-
mained there for sixteen years.
In 1899 he returned to the United States
to study at Columbia. During the year he
lost his wife and a young son and, with two
small children, it was impossible for him to
return to Japan, as he had expected to do.
Instead, he took the principalship of the
Hudson River Institute, Eight years after
leaving Japan he married again.
WHEN Dr. Spencer was inducted into office at
Morgan, the college was located at Edmond-
son and Fulton avenues. There was the one
building in Baltimore, with a branch school
in Princess Anne and another in Lynchburg,
Va. The former is now a State school; the
latter incorporated with the college in Bal-
timore.
Beginning as the Centenary Biblical Insti-
tute for the purpose of training young min-
isters, Morgan became an institution for gen-
eral college training in 1880. In that year
Doctor and Mrs. John F. Goucher gave the
lot at Edmondson avenue and the Rev. Dr.
Lyttleton F. Morgan, long prominent in the
Methodist ministry, contributed so liberally
to the undertaking as to change the name of
the Centenary Biblical Institute to Morgan
College.
It was a pioneer in the field of education
for colored people, and Dr. Spencer's pred
cessors during the first thirty-five years
its history found the hurdles of prejudice ar
limited financial resources almost insu
mountable handicaps. Starting at the tin,
of its inception, in 1867, with a faculty of on
and a student body of nine, it has increase
to a faculty of five and a student body a
150, with only one student of real colleg
caliber.
Dr. Spencer, who has served the college fo
one-half of its life period, was aware of thes
conditions when he came to Baltimore t
assume his new duties. He knew that "ther
were bills in every drawer." But, in this littl
institution, the only one for higher educatio
for the Negro in Maryland, Dr. Spencer sav
a real opportunity for service.
DURING the first five years of his incum
bency, while planning for a greater college
the new president met the immediate prob
lems which were legion. Frequently there
was no money for salaries. In such crise
he did without his own, borrowing from
friends to pay his teachers, who never hac
to go without their pay. In 1907 he set to
work to fulfill his dreams.
He began his work by going to see Andrew
Carnegie and gaining a promise of $50,000
for the erection of a building, providing the
college raise an equal amount for an endow-
ment. Accepting the challenge, Morgan's
president called upon his board of trustees
and friends of the college in Methodist
churches in seven States. He asked the Wash-
ington and Delaware conferences (Negro)
for $25,000. They raised and sent in $27,000
toward the goal.
But all this took time, and meanwhile the
World War had sent building prices soaring,
so that Mr. Carnegie's $50,000 was no longer
adequate for the proposed building. Under-
standing conditions, the Carnegie Corpora-
tion added $45,000 to the original sum prom-
ised.
Antedating the purchase price of the pres-
ent site of the college, eighty pieces of prop-
erty were examined as locations, but in each
case, as soon as the purchaser became known,
opposition developed. The tract of land at
Hillen road and Arlington avenue was se-
cretly purchased by Dr. Spencer and his co-
workers, but legal action followed, and be-
tween the time of Mr. Carnegie's original gift
and the victory for the college, before the
Court of Appeals in 1918, ten years had
elapsed.
DURING those years Dr. Spencer received
$50,000 from the General Education Board,
on condition that the college discharge all
of its indebtedness and match the amount.
The stipulations were met by the Rosenwald
Fund helping to the extent of $110,000.
Carnegie Hall was the first building erected
at the new seat, a three-story-and-basement
structure of gray granite, as are all the
buildings. The boy's dormitory was the
second. Third came Spencer Hall, the Applied
Science Building, its erection made possible
by a gift of $125,000 from the State and one
of $150,000 from the General Education
Board. Fourteen buildings now ornament the
campus.
In academic standing the college has sought
to keep pace with the physical development.
In the year 1925 it gained scholastic recog-
nition by the Middle States Association of
Colleges. So, for twelve years Morgan has
been a fully accredited liberal arts college,
making it possible for its graduates to enter
graduate and professional schools where col-
ored students are admitted. The student body
of 150 which Dr. Spencer found upon as-
suming office thirty-five years ago now
numbers 522 in the regular session; 300 in
the summer school. The faculty of five of
1902 has grown to forty-two, of whom every
one is a college graduate. The assets, which
during the first half of the life of 70-year-old
Morgan College, reached $103,000, have now
reached $1,144,000.
DURING Dr. Spencer's administration 1,276
students have been graduated and may now
hold positions as preachers, missionaries,
lawyers, journalists, nurses. Three alumni
have become bishops in the Methodist Epis-
copal Church, and one in the Protestant Epis-
copal Church. Three have become college
presidents; one a judge in the Hawaiian
Islands. The principals of all colored junior
and senior high schools in Baltimore, save
Continued on next pose
Continued from preceding page
Morgan College
one, are Morgan graduates. In Baltimore
city alone 262 colored teachers are gradu-
ates of the institution, as are sixty-five per
cent. of all principals of county colored high
schools in Maryland.
Although he celebrated his eightieth birth-
day last month, the retiring president is
looking forward to a new project. He is plan-
ning to write on race relations, from his
knowledge acquired chiefly in America and
the Far East.
HE HAS BEEN actively connected with all
organizations having as their purpose the
progress of the Negro race. In 1912 he was
appointed a member of the State Board of
Education, where he laid the foundation for
the high schools for Negroes in the counties
of Maryland. He is a member of the board of
trustees, of Cheltenham, the reform school
for colored boys, and chairman of its com-
mittee on education. The late Governor
Ritchie appointed him chairman of the
Inter-Racial Commission, a position he still
holds. He is a member of the National Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Colored Peo-
ple and of the National Urban League, of the
Asiatic Society of Japan, of numerous edu-
cational organizations, of the official board
of Mount Vernon Place Methodist Church.