"NOTHING UNUSUAL"
The more we hear about the state of affair
in Cheltenham the more in need of thorougl
investigation the conduct of that institution
seems to be. The news was bad enough on
Saturday, when the State Employment Com
missioner, Mr. Jones, reported to the Gov
ernor that a cottage master had hit one of the
inmates on the head with a padlock and that
the boy, on emerging from several days' con
finement for the theft of a few cigars, had beer
further beaten with a rubber hose. Now the
admission of Mr. Sunderland, the head of the
school, that beating the boys with rubber
hose is nothing unusual makes the picture all
the worse.
This admission needs to be considered in
connection with the statement of the Employ-
ment Commissioner that the conduct card of
the boy, whose punishment is in question in
the charges against the cottage master, showed
no record of confinement in a cell, nor a
beating. If it is usual to flog boys at Chelten-
ham with a rubber hose, as Mr. Sunderland
says, and if careful records of such floggings
are not kept, then it would seem that disci-
pline is on a very helter-skelter basis. And it is
decidedly against the public interest to have
discipline on a helter-skelter basis in an insti-
tution dedicated to the reclamation of young
Negro delinquents. The work of reforming
colored boys, and making them into good citi-
zens who will not be menaces to society when
they are discharged, is too serious a task to be
handled except in the most careful and
discriminate manner.
The admission as to the usualness of
rubber-hose beatings raises issues entirely too
broad to be settled at a hearing on charges
against a single cottage master. The State's
responsibility in this matter requires that the
Governor take a hand and arrange for a thor-
ough ventilation of what goes on at Chelten-
ham. If the courts should decide that as the
law now stands there can be no house-clean-
ing at this institution, it will be imperative
for the next Legislature to change the law,
and it is in order for the Governor now to take
appropriate steps to prepare the way for
such a contingency.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.