Ships To Be Rerouted
Nice's Action Approved
When Canal Is Ready In Cheltenham Dispute
10 Lines Now Using Waterway
Regularly-Queries Received
From Many Others
Association For Advancement Of
Colored People Praises Demand
That Board Quit
The impending completion of the The action of Governor Nice in
Chesapeake and Delaware Canal will requesting the resignation of the board
result in the rerouting of many steam- of the Cheltenham School for Boys
ship lines operating along the Atlantic was indorsed yesterday at a meeting
seaboard, according to reports re-of the Baltimore chapter, National
ceived by G. H. Pouder, executive Association for the Advancement of
vice-president of the Baltimore Asso- Colored People, in the Sharp Street
ciation of Commerce.
Methodist Episcopal Church.
About ten major lines now are using
The group, of which Mrs. Lillian M.
the waterway regularly, and many in- Jackson, is president, also praised the
quiries are being received by the Governor for his stand on equalization
Association of Commerce from others, of salaries of Negro and white school-
Use of the canal to vessels drawing teachers.
more than eighteen feet is now re- Speakers included Judge Rowland
stricted because of the presence of K. Adams, of the Supreme Bench,
shoals at various points. Although the former Mayor Broening and Carl
project will not be finished until Murphy, Negro editor.
midsummer, an announcement is ex-
pected shortly from the corps of en- No Hurry On Trobaugh's
gineers permitting deeper-draft ves-
sels to use the waterway.
Negro Wanted For Murder
A State-wide search for Leonard
White, a Negro wanted for murder of
another Negro at Marion Station, near
Successor, Nice Says
"I Want To Try To Get A Real
Man" For Magistracy, Gov-
ernor Comments
Governor Nice had not received the
Crisfield, was undertaken by police resignation of Magistrate John I. Tro-
last night. According to State police baugh, of Savage, last night, but un-
at Salisbury, White stabbed Eugene derstood it was in the mails.
Smith in a tavern brawl about 8 P. М. "I don't believe that there is any
yesterday.
hurry about a new appointment," he
said, "I want to try to get a real man."
A shortage of $1,082 accumulated
over two years was found in Magis-
trate Trobaugh's accounts in March
by Walter R. Rudy, Commissioner of
Motor Vehicles. Mr. Trobaugh paid off
the sum in full on Saturday and re-
ceived a full release signed by Mr.
Rudy. The magistrate then announced
he had resigned.