Salisbury Airplane
Cut In Two By Large
National Guard Ship
New York, June 2 (/P)-The whirling
propeller of a big National Guard ob-
servation plane today cut in two a
small forty-horsepower plane which
a gust of wind blew into the larger
ship.
The army ship was warming up
and Fred E. Ennis, of Salisbury, Md.,
pilot of the smaller plane, had just
stepped from his plane onto the field
when the wind struck.
The small plane was owned by the
Salisbury Aviation Club.
Commencement Week
To Open At St. John's
Exercises Will Begin Tomorrow
And Terminate On Next
Wednesday
Annapolis, June 2 (AP)-Commence-
ment Week exercises at St. John's Col-
lege will begin Saturday with a dance
and end on Wednesday, when fifty-
four students are expected to graduate.
The first event will be a varsity
club dance in the gymnasium. On
Sunday the Rev. Dr. Edward Darling- Although the court proceedings have Gray Bigham, of Biglerville, for the
ton Johnson, rector of St. Anne's Prot-no official connection with the cur- wedding of their daughter, Miss
estant Episcopal Church, will preach rent controversy between Jones and Esther G. Bigham, supervisor of music
the baccalaureate sermon to the grad- the Cheltenham board of managers, in the public schools at Hershey, Pa.,
uating class.
the decision will have a direct bear- and Urwin Rowntree, of Hershey. The
ceremony will be performed June 18, at
4 P. M. in the historic Paxton Church
Sunday afternoon the College Boat ing on the fate of the reorganization
Club will hold a regatta, followed at proposals.
night by the King William Players'
presentation of "The Tempest" in an TO WED AT PAXTANG JUNE 18 in Paxtang, Pa.
outdoor setting. Shakespeare's comedy
will be given a romantic treatment by Miss Esther G. Bigham Will_Marry tional and adult education in the
the college dramatic society. There
Urwin Rowntree
Mr. Rowntree is director of voca-
Hershey schools. He is a son of Mrs.
a gust of wind blew into the larger will be gayly colored pavilions and Gettysburg, Pa., June 2-Invitations Ernest Hopkins Rowntree, of Provi-
ship.
Elizabethan costumes to emphasize the have been issued by Mr. and Mrs. S. dence, R. I.
pageantry of the play.

Court Test Set Monday
Of Jones' Authority
The army ship was warming up
and Fred E. Ennis, of Salisbury, Md.,
pilot of the smaller plane, had just Job Commissioner's Right To
stepped from his plane onto the field Withhold Pay Of "Unfit"
when the wind struck.
Is Issue In Action
The small plane was owned by the A court test of the authority of
Salisbury Aviation Club.
Harry C. Jones, State Employment
Commissioner, to refuse payment of
salaries to State employes he deems
"unfit" for their jobs, will begin Mon-
day in the Prince George's County
Annapolis, June 2 (AP)-Commence- Circuit Court at Upper Marlboro.
ment Week exercises at St. John's Col- The action is a test case brought on
lege will begin Saturday with a dance behalf of more than a score of em-
and end on Wednesday, when fifty- ployes of the Cheltenham School for
four students are expected to graduate. Boys who were dismissed by Jones as
The first event will be a varsity a part of the State's plan to reorganize
club dance in the gymnasium. On the Southern Maryland reformatory.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.