CHELTENHAM
YOUTHS CALLED
HALF STARVED
Cottage Master Who Quit
Says Lack Of Food
Incited Riot
Makes Charges To Grand
Juror And Chairman
Of Board
Thomas Jowanowitch, who resigned
recently as a cottage master at the
Cheltenham School for Negro Youths,
yesterday charged that inmates were
beaten brutally and were incited to
riot because they were "half-starved."
Reports on conditions at the institu-
tion which the former employe de-
scribed as "unbearable," were made to
Charles G. Hawthorne, chairman of a
grand jury committee on Cheltenham,
and Joseph H. Blandford, chairman of
the board of managers of the reform
school.
Mr. Jowanowitch told the grand jury
representative of his experiences in an
interview yesterday, Mr. Hawthorne,
his committeemen and other members
of the jury will make an inspection
of the school today, arranged a week
ago as a routine matter.
Letter Accuses Sunderland
Later the former cottage master
wrote a letter to the chairman of the
board of managers, which, among
other things, accused Benjamin B.
Sunderland, superintendent of the in-
stitution, of being "inefficient."
The board of managers was told
that Mr. Sunderland's "attitude to-
ward the boys of that school is not to
rehabilitate them but to make them
criminals before they even get out."
Other disclosures, and charges made
by the former cottage master were:
A group of "half-starved" Negro
youths, armed with iron bars,
bricks, razor blades and old
knives, attacked a night watch-
man recently.
The food served inmates is "nothing
but slop, fit for hogs."
The medical service is inadequate.
There is a lack of recreational equip-
ment.
Maintenance for institutional officers
is inadequate.
Declares Charges Are False
When reached last night, Mr. Sunder-
land said statements of Mr. Jowano-
witch concerning the "unbearable
conditions" at the reform school were
"absolutely false." He said the food is
"not bad" and that inmates get all they
can eat.
was a new man.
"This place is not as he describes it,"
the superintendent declared. "He didn't
have good control over the boys. He
We have some
who don't make good cottage masters."
When asked about the alleged beat-
ing of boys with hoses, Mr. Sunder-
land admitted that hoses were used
as weapons in "extreme cases." "We
take down here what (boys) Balti-
more is done with," he asserted.
He denied there was a recent riot,
saying it was a "little mixup." When
questioned about the medical care
afforded inmates, Mr. Sunderland said
the institution's physician was avail-
able whenever he was wanted.
Took Post March 19
Mr. Jowanowitch, a Merit System
employe, became cottage master at
Cheltenham March 19 and tendereć
his resignation last Wednesday. Ir
his letter to the board of managers,
the former employe said:
"I find the boys' food to be nothing
but 'slop,' fit for hogs. The boys are
half starved to death. By being half
starved to death is the main reason
that these boys are incited to bring
about riots.
"I actually had a riot in my cot-
tage (No. 1) about the third day I
was cottage master. I came just in the
nick of time to save a night watch-
man's life. The entire group (of boys)
rose as one man and attacked the night
watchman.
Complained Of Being Hungry
"They had iron bars, bricks, sticks,
hair clippers, razor blades and some
old knives, and a lot of other miscel-
(Continued on Page 11, Column 5)
LEVELS CHARGES
AT CHELTENHAM
wards which took place in his office.1
The boy, he recounted, was struck
by an official with a rubber hose after
he was forced to bend over.
The force of the blow, Mr. Jowano-
witch continued, threw the Negro boy
to the other side of the office. When
Cottage Master Who Quit the boy refused to bend over any
Says "Half-Starved" Youths more, the official retaliated by striking
Were Beaten
him on the head and neck with the
hose, he went on.
*
"I find that the medical service is
Describes Conditions To inadequate due to the fact that the
Grand Juror And Board
Chairman
doctor (Dr. William H. Gibbons) is
there, I think, two days a week," the
former cottage master wrote the board.
"The night I had the riot, I demanded
that I have a doctor to take care of
Frank Temple's eye.
(Continued from Page 24)
"About an hour later, Mr. Carroll,
assistant superintendent, sent one man,
laneous articles. I do believe that the
might watchman was not responsible
for the riot, because the boys have who the boys call Dr. John. They
been complaining that they are hungry. claim he is a horse doctor, but he
"They had been working out in the took care of this boy's eye for three
field.... Their food was insufficient, days before the doctor arrived."
causing them to be starved and nat-
Mr.Jowanowitch charged Mr.Sunder-
urally starvation breeds antagonism land was "against" merit system em-
against the cottage master. There were ployes who were sent down to the in-
three boys locked up the night the stitution to fill vacancies. Records at
riot took place.
the State Employment Commissioner's
"One boy, named (Frank)) Tem-office show that of the fifty-eight classi-
ple, received a deep gash just beneath, fied workers sent there since October
I believe, his right eye.... I rescued 1, 1937, twenty-six had left for one
the night watchman just in time, and, Ireason or another.
through some peaceful words, I man-
aged to gain the confidence of the
boys and they were turned back to the
reading room.
"I talked to them for several min-
utes until I had everything under
control, showed them that riot does
not pay and the boys actually listened
to me."
Says He Witnessed Beating
Although he did not mention it in
his letter to the board of managers,
- the former cottage master said he had
witnessed the beating of Wallace Ed-