Cheltenham
Why It Is Proposed That The State
Assume Ownership And Control
Of This Much-Criticized Institu-
tion For Colored Boys
It is now all but certain that delinquent,
vagrant, feeble-minded, and otherwise un-
fortunate colored boys will get something
like a square deal from the State of Mary-
land. At any rate, when the bill authorizing
the State to take over and operate the
House of Reformation for Colored Boys
passes the Legislature and goes into effect,
colored boys will no longer be sent to an
institution outside the control of the State,
miserably financed and ill-equipped to carry
on passable work in this field. The board
of trustees of the Cheltenham Reforma-
tory has accepted the bill now before the
Legislature, having waived all financial con-
sideration, and the bill, which has been
introduced by a legislative group including
members of both political parties, ought to
have clear sailing.
The spade work for this encouraging step
away from an antiquated and unenlightened
policy of dealing with colored boys has been
performed to a large extent by Enoch Har-
lan and M. Hampton Magruder, representing
the Cheltenham trustees, and Morris A.
Rome, of the Board of State Aid and Chari-
ties. Patience, fact and energy have been
generously applied to this problem by all
parties, with the result that a bill has been
framed which in time will end forever the
medieval policy which remote control and
stingy appropriations have for so long im-
posed upon Cheltenham.
From now on colored boys will actually
be wards of the State and not its neglected
stepebitdren.
-0-
The Cheltenham bill begins with the state-
ment that, "in consideration of the State
of Maryland assuming its obligations to
the colored mate minors under its care and
custody," the Cheltenham trustees are an-
thorized to transfer the physical property
to the State, reserving from cash on hand
the sum of $30.000 to be used in general for
pensions and other adjustments in the com-
pensation of present employés.
The employés are placed under the civil-
service regulations of the State. This should
mean that better trained workers can be
obtained for Cheltenham and, with the
higher scale of salaries which will now
be possible, the staff should soon round
out into something like adequney.
One of the principal weaknesses of Chel-
tenham has been that until recently it has
lacked funds to make possible the separa-
tion of young colored criminals from col-
ored boys who have been sent there merely
for protection or shelter. Boys ill from
tuberculosis have not been segregated or
adequately treated. Feeble-minded boys re-
ceive little special treatment.
The broom factory where the older boys
at. Cheltenham used to work under contract
to a private corporation has been liquidated
and other reforms have been inaugurated
since the report made by the Child Welfare
League of America on conditions in 1931.
But much remains to be done which can-
not be done until the State of Maryland
has established the same control over the
care and reformation of colored boys that
it exercises over white boys,
It should not be imagined that, when
the Legislature has passed this bill, vali-
dating the arrangement which the Chelten-
ham trustees and the Board of State Aid
and Charities have arrived at, Maryland's
custodianship of colored boys will be per-
fect. The physical plant at Cheltenham will
have to be improved and perhaps enlarged,
and there should be a greater amount of
coöperation between the committing magis-
trates and the school. Paroled boys and
those discharged from the institution need
more careful and sympathetic following-up.
-o-
State control and responsibility is obvi-
ously the first step to permanent and
assured improvement. It is hard to believe
that the Legislature will look for reasous
to upset the hard work and real sacrifice
which have distinguished the activities of
both the State officials and the Cheltenham
trustees in this matter. The trustees are,
after all, turning over property estimated
as worth $400,000 to the State for no con-
sideration whatever. The Board of State
Aid and Charities is accepting new respon-
sibilities and a tough assignment all round.
Judges who have to commit delinquent
colored boys to Cheltenham have for years
been tossing and monning because there was
no better place to, send them. One judge
told me a few years ago that he sent as
few colored boys as possible down there
because it did them more harm than good.
No reformatory is perfect, but a Legisla-
ture which insisted that Maryland must
commit boys to a private institution beyond
its control where, in the past at any rate,
they have been underſed and overreformed
to no purpose, would have a lot of explain-
ing to do.
FREDERIC NELSON.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.