New Legion Heads Elected At Ocean City
CHARLES S. HOUCK
MRS. FRANK P. FARLEY
MR. HOUCK, of Walkersville, was elected commander of the Maryland Department of the
American Legion. Mrs. Farley, Of Chevy Chase, was elected president of the Auxiliary.
HOUCK NAMED HEAD
OF STATE LEGION
Delegates Vote To Accept
Cumberland For 1936
Convention
HONOR JOIN F. MeNULTY
Mrs. Frank P. Farley, of Chevy
Chase, Selected As President
Of Auxiliary
By the Associated Press]
Ocean City, Md., Sept. 7-By a
margin of only eight votes, Charles S.
Houck. of Walkersville, was elected
commander of the Maryland Depart-
ment of the American Legion in the
closing sessions of the seventeenth
annual convention here today.
Houck's victory was scored after
four ballots had been cast in the hotly-
contested vote. He deſcated Roy L.
Pyle, of Phœnix. Paul Higinbotham,
Baltimore attorney, withdrew from the
race.
Enlisting on April 7, at the age of
18, Mr. Houck was overseas from May,
1918, to May, 1919, and was made a
corporal during that time. In 1928-
29 and 1932-33, Mr. Houck was a mem-
ber of the department executive com-
mittee of the Legion, and in 1930-31,
was vice-commander of the Western
Maryland district. He was elected
again to that post last year.
Cumberland Selected
The delegates voted to accept Cum-
berland's bid for the 1936 convention
and endorsed John F. McNulty, re-
tiring commander, as their choice for
the national commandership.
Other officers named were:
Fred Baugh. Baltimore, treasurer;
Ellis Levin, Baltunore, judge advo-
(Continued on Page 21, Column 2)
last night was one instructing Mary-
land delegates to the national Legion
convention to urge immediate pay-
ment of face value adjusted service
certificates with refunded interest;
another opposing the return to the
United States of Grover Cleveland
Bergdoll, draft evader, and a third
favoring passage of the anti-lynching
bill.
The State was requested to take
over the Cheltenham Reformatory or
provide suitable institutions for de-
linquent Negro boys; the installation
of a course in traffic safety instruc-
tion in State high schools was recom-
mended, and the restoration and pres-
ervation of the Old Soldiers' Home at
Pikesville as a memorial to Maryland
veterans was urged.
The State was requested to author-
cale; Kaymond W. Cooke, Baltimore, ize the creation of a Negro National
chaplain, and Staward Reader, St. Guard battalion and grant the same
Mary's City, historian.
educational opportunities to Negro
Elections held by the Legion Auxili- children as apply to white children;
ary, which met in concurrent sessions additional space for feeble-minded
during the past week, resulted in the Negro children in the Crownsville
selection of Mrs. Frank P. Farley, Hospital was asked, and approval of
of Chevy Chase, for the presidency. the national organization of American
Legion nurses was given.
Auxiliary Officers
Other auxiliary officers were:
Mrs. B. F. Mann, Baltimore, treas-
urer; Mrs. Carl Fink, Westminster, his-
torian;. Mrs. George Bunting, Poco-
moke City, chaplain, and the following
vice-presidents for the various dis-
tricts:
Baltimore district, Mrs. Harlan John-
son, north central; Mrs. Fanny Depew,
Dundalk; northeastern, Mrs. Warren
W. Bouldin, Elkton; southern, Mrs.
Brooke Fetty, Takoma Park; south-
eastern Shore, Mrs. W. W. Galvin,
Salisbury; Western Maryland, Mrs.
John Elgin, Hagerstown.
The Legion itself went on record
today with a demand that the United
States withdraw recognition of Soviet
Russia. Yesterday's program, canceled
by the gale which lashed Ocean City
and other sections of the Shore, was
packed into a single business session
which began about 8 P. Μ.
Among the sixteen resolutions passed