Grand Jury Recommends
Vote Machines, Other Changes
Inquest Would Have Speed Of Cars Limited, York
Road Pylons Removed And Would Allow
Turn On Red Lights
Recommending voting machines andan "engine of death" and said they
a permanent registration, including hoped "something can be done by
autographed photographs of voters, law to limit the production of speed
and suggesting several changes in
ifrom ninety miles per hour to approx-
traffic regulations, the retiring May
term grand jury yesterday submitted imately forty-five miles an hour
its report to the judges of the Crim-
inal Court.
Other Recommendations
Other recommendations made by the
jurors were, briefly:
Limitation of the possible speed of
automobiles.
Creation of north and south bound
arteries.
Removal of pylons from York road
and the replacing of street cars
with busses which will discharge
passengers at the curb.
Move car tracks to center of Eastern
avenue, between Savage street and
Dundalk avenue, where there have
been many accidents.
Allow right-hand turns on red lights
and have the street properly
marked for the direction of traffic.
Widen Calvert street from twenty-
five to thirty feet between Lexing-
ton street and North avenue.
Traffic light at University Parkway
and Forticth street.
Eliminate parking on the main
streets of the business district from
early morning until late in the
afternoon.
Have police pay strict attention to
taverns where dancing is permitted
as minors frequent them un-
chaperoned.
Cheltenham Criticized
The grand jury also reported it con-
sidered as "inhuman" the manner in
which the hospital at the Cheltenham
School for Colored Boys is conducted
and recommended that the State take
over the institution.
It asserted the men in charge are
"most unsuited and incapable of
managing this institution," and recom-
mended that it be managed by cap-
able Negroes who are available.
After having watched at close range
the work of J. Bernard Wells, State's
Attorney, and his staff, the jury de-
clared it "a very efficient organiza-
tion to protect the interests of the
people." It also praised the work of
the Domestic Relations Department
under Morgan M. Buchner.
Would Cut Autos' Speed
Citing the great number of acci-
dents reported monthly, the jurors
declared the automobile had become
...
If we went back to the thirty-horse-
power engine of 1926, we could go
'back to the low death rate of 1926 and
save 10,000 people from death each
year and 400,000 from injury.
Discusses Voting Laws
Concerning the voting laws, it was
said:
"We recommend the purchase of
voting machines by the city. We are
convinced that a permanent syster
of registration of voters has merit, and
therefore, recommend the adoption of
the system. We suggest that when
registration is made that a photograph
be made of the applicant, which would
be autographed by the voter and a
permanent file be kept and used for
identification when a voter casts his
ballot."
The grand jury would eliminate
daytime parking on Charles street
between Centre and Fayette streets
and on Baltimore, Fayette, Redwood
and Lombard streets between Falls
place and Greene streets.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.