REFUSING JOB
TO QUENSTEDT
RENDS G. O. P.
Welfare Board Fails To
Make Him Warden Of
House Of Correction
NICE REITERATES
PROMISE OF POST
Chairman Says "I See No
Reason For Change" In
Explanation
An open breach in Maryland Repub-
lican ranks was precipitated yesterday
by the State Board of Welfare's failure
to appoint Mayor Walter E. Quenstedt
of Annapolis, warden of the House of
Correction.
He had been promised the position
by Governor Nice. On the strength of
this, it is understood, Mayor Quen-
stedt, three times Mayor of Annapolis,
did not attempt to succeed himself in
that position.

Saw No Reason For Change
Charles J. Butler, of Easton, chair-
man of the board and an appointee of
Governor Nice, said:
"I see no reason for any change."
Dr. J. LeRoy Wright is warden of
the institution at present.

Nice Insists On Choice
Governor Nice, after the meeting,
said:
"Quenstedt is going to be head of the
House of Correction."
In the controversy of "he will and
he won't," the six members of the
board, all of whom attended yester-
day's meeting, referred all inquiries
to Mr. Butler.
Asked why the foreshadowed change
in the wardenship of the Cut had not
been acted upon at the meeting, Mr.
Butler said from his home at Easton:
"There is no particular explanation.
I believe it is not the time for any
change.

Says Dr. Wright Fills Bill
"Dr. Wright seems to be filling the
bill all right and on that basis I see
no reason for any change."
Reminded that Governor Nice has
repeatedly given the understanding
that Mayor Quenstedt is to be ap-
pointed head of the House of Correc-
tion, Mr. Butler said:
"That is the Governor. But I'm the
Director of Welfare and that change
is a matter for the board and myself
to decide."

Place Not Mentioned
The welfare board meeting was held
on the seventh floor of the Union Trust
Building and when Mayor Quenstedt,
who came to Baltimore with the ex-
pectation of being notified of his ap-
pointment to the wardenship, learned
that no mention had been made of
that appointment he took the ele-
vator to the tenth floor.
He told the Governor of the situ-
ation and, when asked later about
the matter, Governor Nice plumped
his fist on his desk and said:
"You can say for me that Quen-

(Continued on Page 11, Column 4)
(Continued from Page 24)
tained only through competitive ex mates, a bad diet, no provision for vo-
amination, it was pointed out.
cational training, antique disciplinary
measures and other faults. Officials
there have replied that conditions were
not as bad as painted, and that lack
Mr. Kearns was appointed to his
position four years ago by the welfare
board and it recently has been dis-
closed that he did not comply with
all of the requirements of the State of funds is the sole cause for any
Employment Commission in obtaining shortcomings.
the position.
Mr. Kearns was a minister for
Mr. Carl is the commercial manager fifteen years. Previous to his appoint-
of the Hagerstown Municipal Electric ment to the position at the penal
Light Plant, is 40 years old, married farm, he had spent eight years as pas-
and has two small children.
tor of the Universalist Church of Bal-
Those who attended yesterday's timore. Before that he had served in
meeting besides Mr. Butler and Har-
old E. Donnell, superintendent of pris-
ons, were:
John T. Dalls.
Mrs. Frank R. Kent,
Dr. Lewellys F.
Barker,
Mrs. Georgo ۱۳.
McCreary.
E. T. Foreman,
Harry O. Levin,
Mr. Donnell and Patrick J. Brady,
warden of the Penitentiary, retained
their positions under the new board.
stedt is going to be head of the House Announces Cheltenham
of Correction."
Head Will Be Pensioned
pulpits at Binghampton, N. Y., and
Bridgeport, Conn. He was part time
chaplain at the Maryland Penitentiary
for four years.
He was born in 1888 at Salisbury,
N. C. At St. Lawrence University, at
Canton, N. Y., he received his degrees
of bachelor of arts and bachelor of
divinity. Later he received the bache-
lor of divinity at Yale University
also. He specialized there in social
sciences.
In the World War Mr. Kearns was
To Press For New Meeting
Although Robert D. Case, secretary
The superintendent of the House of chaplain of the Three Hundred and
to the board, said that no meetings Reformation for Colored Boys, at Chel- Twelfth Machine Gun Battalion of
of the board would be held in the tenham, John Pyles, will resign, and the Seventy-ninth Division. He was
next two months it was understood in Hal T. Kearns, who resigned yesterday promoted in the field to divisional
the Governor's office that pressure as superintendent of the State Penal chaplain. After the armistice he
will be brought to bear on Mr. But- Farm, near Hagerstown, will take his served as morale officer of the
ler to call a meeting within the next place.
few days.
Howard C. Hill, making this an-
Dr. Butler last night said that no
nouncement yesterday for the execu-
tive committee of the board of man-
meetings of the board were schaduled
for the near future because "some agers, of which he is a member, said
members of the board are going away that the position had been offered to
on vacations and I won't hold a meet- accepted yesterday. Mr. Pyles, who has
Mr. Kearns two weeks ago and that he
ing unless all the members are there." been at the Cheltenham school for
It had been announced previously thirty-two years, will be pensioned.
that the Board of Welfare at yester- Mr. Kearns will assume office on
day's meeting was going to replace, July 15.
not only Dr. Wright but also Hal T. He has been superintendent at the
Kearns, superintendent of the penal penal farm since it was founded, in
farm at Roxbury, near Hagerstown. 1931. In commenting upon his ac-
Carl Named Farm Head ceptance of the new position, Mr.
Kearns said, "I intend to try to carry
Mr. Kearns' resignation was accepted out at the House of Reformation the
by the board and E. B. Carl, of same individual study, treatment and
Hagerstown, was appointed temporary training program as we have used at
head of the penal farm.
the penal farm. This program is pri-
Mr. Kearns tendered his resignation marily educational, and we shall carry
last Friday but came to Baltimore yes- it out to the fullest extent that is pos-
terday to learn what the welfare board sible with the equipment and resources
was going to do about it. He found which are available. The board is giv-
out and two hours later announced ing me free rein. My only handicap
he had accepted the post of superin- will be want of sufficient funds."
tendent of the House of Reformation
for Colored Boys at Cheltenham.
Long Under Criticism
Mr. Carl was notified that his ap- The reformatory for Negro boys has
pointment was temporary and would long been the subject of critical com-
take effect July 16. He also was ad- ment. Many organizations and individ-
vised to make application to Harry C. uals year after year have criticized
Jones, State Employment Commis- it. In January the Child Welfare
sioner, for the position that he might League of America published a report
be advised as to when the examination in which it asserted that at Chelten-
for the position would be held.. ham there are bad living conditions,
inadequate segregation of diseased in-
Under Classified Service
The position is listed under the
classified service and may be ob-
Seventy-ninth Division.