VICTORIA, THE LYRICAL
FOOTNOTE TO CANADA
Harold Brighouse Describes City In British Colum-
bia As A Cheltenham In Subdued
Scottish Scenery
This is one in a series of artules by Mr. Harold Brighouse. play-
wright and novelist, describing the places he witca in a tour of North
Americo. Other arteles giving Mr. Brighouses tmpressions of cities in
the United States have appeared in The Sun. The following describes his
fost contact with Canadian sod on aritul by sea from Seattle.
-
Ry HAROLD DRIGHOUSE
[Manchester Guardian Correspondence]
TWO QUAYSIDE buddings strike the about descriptions, for my sentiments)
ese as the boat arrives at Victoria, were that I had come home: that 1
B. C. One is the Government Build-did not know which place in British
ing, the other the Empress Hotel. Columbia, Victoria or Vancouver, I
There are launs between Government preferred, but that were I about to be
House and the quay and on the lanas born again with rather more taste for
are sigus which read "Please keep off outdoor pursuits than I have in this
the grass." In the hotel teacups were life, I should pray to be born a British
laid out in the lounge and when I Columbian. I understand very well why
asked, experimentally, for China tea so many men, when they dream that
I got it.
10~
common dream of busing an island.
have in mind the islands of the straits
THAT IS HOW, so earls and so between Vancouver Island and the
definitely, I knew that I had come to mainland. Clothe a Hebridean Iste
British soil. They don't. in the States, richly with pine forest and that is the
waste paint on the word "please"; - pattern of this archipelago.
stead of "waste paper" on the wire
10~
bins in the parks thes say, with brutal BEING of its period and of its con-
brevity, "trash." and as to tea, they tinent, Vancouver has busldings which
hang a calico bag of tealenses inside are high, but with restraint, ne is
the pot and balance it outside with a seemly in a town not only British but
label usually reading "English break-set amongst mountains. For the must
fast tea," and the result is sotrothing part, harring some tennis courts and
strongly flavored with cotton.
that questionable feature of public
I fancy that when a man I set in park, a zoo, the great tract of Standes
San Francisco called me a cosmopoli- Park has been left as it naturally was,
tan he was thinking not of my avoid-an area of virgin forest urbanized only
ance of paranoiac tantrums at the by a marme drive on its edges and by
screaming electric street signs, the a few roads cutting through it. But,
shrill traffic controls, the jangling essentially, under its porthern mists
street cars and the names of the "Good) which shroud the mountains, and in its
Eats" restaurant and the chain of climate-kept temperature by some Gulf
grocery stores, but of my tactful re- Stream-like influence from Japan,
fusal to let him try to find afternoon Vancouver is a British town Ca-
tea in San Francisco.
nadian and proud of it, not whooping
about prosperity, but quietly confident.
101
0
I HAD. as one of the bulldog breed,
allowed myself to be led into a restau- I MENTION, incidentally, that ils
rant in Los Angeles which announced Little Theater has a drop-curtain, la-
afternoon tea in so many words, The cally painted, of a Rabelaisan aud
place was void of customers: it ap. exhilarating relish; that its bookshops
peared to be void of wastresses until are richla stocked (but that is a shar
one potired that against the wall were acteristic of the const due to the di
diwans aml 01 them siesta-taking tance from the publishing renters; a
Indies. One of these avoke before we book is either in stock or not procur.
could withdraw and charmingly, treat able for a fortuight, and the shops
ing us as patients or as lunatics, shefi in poble to stock as heasily as pos
brought us tea, but not again did Isible); and that, beyond all, Vancouve
offend agamst the custom of the is a center of life for the man of the
open air both on land and sea. I do not
country.
Long may teatime be the rest hour temember to have seen in one harbor so
of their waitresses, long mas they rest mans yachts and "speedboats" as at
ignorant of the super-efficient ninets Vancouver.
minutes of the English workers' day
which tea induces! New York, indeed,
has its teashops, English and exotic,
where tea is served self-consciously at)
the English hour. But New York is
not America.
101
TO RETURN to Victoria and to pass
beyond the buildings on the quay, the
boys of Brentwood College were play-
ing cricket ("Oh," to paraphrase
Francis Thompson, "my Tyldesley and
my Iddam far away!"); the girls of
the Provincial Normal School were
about to celebrate breaking-up by act-
ing "The Pruce Who Was a l'iper";
the gardens have hedges, there is one of
amal ent with peacock in box and
Jother nice conventions, and the scenery
of Vancouver Island, on which Victoria
stands, is like that of the Scottish
loets.
10~
VICTORIA or Vancouver-that (if 1
am born again) is the formula. Wall
it he Victoria, a pincid pince, a kind of
Cheltenham in subdued Scottish scen-
erz-though the north of Vancouver
Island, they tell me, is wild enough for
any adventure-or will it be Van-
couver, with the many sea fronts,
with the delta of the Fraser river
making a sportsman's paradise, with
mile-high mountains at hand for prae-
tive, with the Rockies a day's journey
distant for serons clnabing, and with
Asia Reross the water and the cultures
of two worlds meeting as, in Chinese
decomations and a tine English hbrary,
I saw theות meet in a house above
those golf links which go down to the
sea?
I do not know, and patriotism. I do
know, is not enough; but if ever I
patrioticalls bated a man whom I per-
I have heard Victoria called a "luri-sonally liked it was the ex-rancher
cal footnote to Canada," and Van-from Kansas City who, without feeling
couver City they have styled both the for the spirit of the plaer, was trar-
terminal city of the empire and, look-eling to "look over" British Columbia
ing westward to our Far East, "the with a view ta huding "propositions"
empire's halfway cats." I cared not for investment.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.