PROBE OF COLORED
HOME IS REQUESTED
Conditions At Cheltenham
Institution Criticized In
Joint Resolution
M. L. FINE IS SPONSOR
House Of Delegates Hears Boys
Are Hired Out And Educa-
tion Is Irregular
{ {Annapolis Bureon of The Sug
Annapolis, Jan. 22-A joint resolu
tion authorizing and directing the
"grand inquest" committee to investi
gate conditions at the House of Refor-
mation for Colored Boys at Chelten-
ham was introduced in the House of
Delegates tonight by Melvin L. Fine.
from the Fourth district of Baltimore
tity.
The measure prosiles that the com-
mittee report the result of its findings
en or betore March 18 and that the
Governor then take such "act or nets
necessary to remedy same and recom-
mend in his budget or supplemental
budget such amounts as may be ascer-
tained by said committee to be neces-
sary and advisable."
Called Perniciou
Mr. Fime in the beginning of his
resolution asserts that the principal
object of the school "is to reform and
instruct boys committed to its care.
school instruction being esteented as
one among the chief means of reformia-
tion."
He charges that "a large part of the
work of the institution seems to have
been largely lost sight of; a pernicious
system of hiring out inmates to farm-
ers and truckers has been in force,
and of the boys at the institution a
large number are listed as general
ontside workers, while the balance are
employed on a farm, in the laundry or
shor-repair shop or doing the general
work of the institution."
Government Crittelred
He also charges that "no industrial
training of any value is provided and
a boy leaving the institution is almost
or quite as unfitted to face the world
as he was when committed, and there
is no educational system whatever, but
that the teaching of even the smallest
boys is irregular, desultory and pro-
ductive of poor results,"
Mr. Fine attacks the government of
the institution because it "is a private
corporation managed by a board of
sixteen members of whom two are
appointed by the Mayor and City
Council of Baltimore city and two by
the Govranor. The remaining twelve
constitute a self-perpetuating body so
that the management of the institution
is completely under the control of the
twelve private members of the corpora-
tion."
The resolution also alleges that con-
ditions at the school "are a menace to
the health of the boys there and the
dust which fills the shops being con-
ducive to throat and long troubles of
a serious character."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.