WHY NOT CHELTENHAM?
R
Governor Ritchie, taking up the case of two
Negro boys sentenced to the House of Correc-A
tion from St. Mary's county last month, sug-
gested either a parole or transfer to the Chelten-
ham Reformatory. The fact that the Parole Com-
missioner has recommended the former course
does not answer the question why they were not v
sent to Cheltenham in the first placc.
The two boys, one 13 and the other 15 years
of age, received sentences of eighteen months
and a year, respectively, the younger for forging
check for $14, the older under accusation of
stealing an automobile. The sentences, imposed
by Judge Loker, of the Seventh Judicial Circuit,
were certainly drastic. And they were not ren-
dered less so by the judge's selection of a penal
institution.
Cheltenham, adjacent to St Mary's county,
would certainly seem a more logical as well as a
preferable place of confinement for these and
similar Negro juvenile offenders. It is true that
the county committing prisoners to Cheltenham
is responsible for a small contribution toward
their expenses. But it is hard to believe that this
was in Judge Loker's mind when he passed the
sentences.
A WRITER FOR ENJOYMENT
Stanley J. Weyman was 35 and the "gay
nineties" had just dawned when he modestly in-
troduced "The House of the Wolf" to the Eng-
lish-reading world. From then on, for a decade
or more, no year seemed quite complete without
its Weyman romance.
T
T
V
I
(
f
C
li
0
ก
t
1
Sometimes they tumbled out at almost six-
month intervals. "Under the Red Robe" and
"My Lady Rotha" both appeared in 189-4. The
next year saw the "Memoirs of a Minister of
France" and "The Red Cockade." It was just 1
about that time, if memory serves, that New
England began to be popular as a summer resort.
And years will pass before all the Weyman
novels imported into its boarding houses by
vacationists are finally rounded up.
(
Weyman, as we look back upon him, seems to
stand as lineal successor to Dumas and natural
forerunner of Sabatini. Combining a comely
style with vivid descriptive powers, a sound
knowledge of history with a keen sense of the
dramatic, his art was pre-eminently that of men-
tal refreshment. Therefore, death will not end
his appeal. Put a carefully selected volume of
Stanley Weyman on the bookshelf in your guest
room, and a year hence you will find it exhibit-
ing many signs of wear. Or, if you want a sim-
pler test, call up the library.
They Can't Do Everything
from the Ohio State Journali
It would be funny if the marines, who, we are
told, are in Nicaragua to insure an honest elec-
tion, should be given special instructions to see
that no campaign contributions are solicited or
accepted from questionable sources by the per-
son who corresponds down there to our Repub-
lican national chairman.
One For George
Trom the Dallas News.
Looky here. Big Bill George III had his taults,
but he ran his government without the aid of
dynamite.
1
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.