English
Boys Visit
Germany
ceived as guests by that city and the form a work community in which all
Kaiser-Friedrich School. They were have equal rights. The teacher no
accommodated in one of the "recreation longer claims authority, but knows
schools" of Berlin, situated in Birken- how to lead the pupils on without
werder, a suburb; swift electric trains compulsion, in voluntary and cheerful
to the city made this of no inconvent cooperation.
ence and permitted full enjoyment of A pleasing feature of the meeting of
the surrounding woodland and water. the schoolboys of the two nationalities
During the whole of their stay they
was the way in which they formed
lived with two classes of the school, friendships together, especially during
Scholars Now Are Making whose guests they were, the boys of
both nationalities having thus an ad
Study Tours To Vari- mirable opportunity of learning to
ous Points Of Interest
In New Republic
know each other.
the three days' excursion to Dresden
aud "Saxon-Switzerland." The weather
was tine, and it was unanimously
voted the most enjoyable part of the
These recreation schools, sometimes
stay. The suggestion has been made in
far away in the woods, are very char-
Germany of all exchange scheme.
acteristic of school conditions in the under which a class from a German
large towns in Germany. The German
and one from an English public school
public schools are not boarding schools would change places for perhaps a
Live With German Stu- out in the country as in England, but month; this visit of the fifty English
day schools situated in towns, and schoolboys may have helped to pave
dents While There In suffer from lack of playing fields. Hence the way for some such plan.
- Order To Promote time to time for a few weeks to one of
Amity Among Nations. receiving instruction out-of-doors, they
S
TUDY tours in England have been
it is the custom to send classes from
these recreation schools where, besides
have good opportunity for sport.
VISITED GALLERIES
The party spent most of its time
arranged for some years past by seeing Berlin and its places of urt. A
many German schools, especially the charabane tour was made of the city;
Kaiser-Friedrich School in Berlin. This they also visited Potsdam, the Reich-
year a similar visit has been under- stag, the Palace Museum, the airport,
taken on the part of the English, Well- Berlin's electricity works, a big pub-
ington College, Cheltenham College, lishing house and the Gas.and Water
Christ's Hospital, and Gresham School Exhibition. The Mayor gave a lunch
sending twelve boys each, with six mas- in their honor in the Town Hall. and
ters, to make a three weeks' study tour they were invited by the Municipal
in. Germany.
Opera to performances of Meister-
The party met in Southampton and singer and the Magic Flute. They were
went from there to Hamburg. Two days very much interested in Berlin's
were spent in this city, the more im- theaters and kinemas, including a well-
portant places of interest being visited played German version of Charley's
in addition to a round tour of the town Aunt. Most of these visits were ur-
in two charabanes provided by the ranged in the company of German
corporation. Among the places visited schoolboys.
were the docks, a food factory, and They also visited the school which
Hagenbeck's famous Zoological Gar- invited them. In most classes there is
dens.
coeducation, and nearly all the teach-
From Hamburg the party went by ing is what is known as communal
train to Berlin, where they were re- instruction. That is, master and pupil
Manchester Guardian Correspondencel
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.