A
ANGEL ESQUIRE EDGAR WALLACE
CHAPTER VIII. (Continued.)
NGEL might have easily explained.
Indeed, Angel might bave relieved
their minds to a very large extent in
regard to old George, for in marking
down the haunt of the "Borough
Lot" be had been entirely deceived
as to the part played by the old man
who acted as "caretaker" to the
"empty" house.
In a four-wheeled cab old George,
smiling foolishly and passing his hand
from time to time over his tremulous
mouth, listened to the admonitions of
Mr. Bat Sands.
"Connor wants to know all about
it," said Bat menacingly; "and if you
have been playing tricks, old man, the
Lord help you."
"The Lord help me," smiled old
George complacently.
He ran his dirty fingers through his
few scanty white locks, and the smile
died out of his face, and his loose
mouth dropped pathetically.
CHARACTERS AS THEY APPEAR IN THE STORY.
WILLIAM SPEDDING, prominent London lawyer and attorney
for
JAMES RYAN REALE, former proprietor of Realc's Unrivaled
Temple of Chance of Cairo, Egypt, and other cities, who as
his end nears finds himself possessed of a vast fortune accu-
mulated with the aid of
JAMES CAVENDISH FAIRFAX STANNARD, alias JIMMY.
the blackley son of a nobic house,
PATRICK GEORGE CONNOR, leader of a gang of criminals
known as "The Borough Lot," and a man designated only as
MASSEY, who kills Reale when the old man refuses to divido
his fortune with him and is himself killed by a trick device
in the old man's home. The death of Reale reveals that he
has left his fortune to Jimmy, Connor and
KATHLEEN KENT, daughter of a man ruined by Reale, it being
stipulated that the money is to go to the one who first finds
the key to the safe in a mausoleum built by Reale in the
heart of London. Aiding Miss Kent is
OURISTOPHER ANGEL (Angel Esquire), one of Scotland
Yard's shrewdest detectives.
Copyright. 1927, Small. Maynard and Co., Inc.
"Yes, yes," he muttered; "of course, "And," asked Connor. "what hap-
Mr. Connor, you have been most kind pened next? There were two of them.
were there?"
"Mr. Sands," he said, then stopped; the crib-ah!-the young man who
then he repeated the name to himself wanted to rent or hire the room up-
a dozen times; then he rubbed his stairs."
bead again.
10-
-0-
THE MHE old man nodded gravely;
nodded a number of times,
though the exercise pleased him.
"The other young man-not the
here that wants a short walk after
breakfast between two lines of ward-
ers to a little shed where a brand-
new rope is hanging from the roof,
he's at liberty to do what he likes
with old George, but not in this house."
He fixed his eyes on Vinnis.
"And if there's any man here," he
went on, "who's already in the shadow
of the rope, so that one or two mur-
ders more won't make much difference
one way or the other, he can do as he
likes--outside this house."
Vinnis shrank back.
"There's nothing against ime," he
growled.
"The rope," muttered the old man,
"Vinnis for the rope," he chuckled to
himself, "I fear they counted too im-
plicitly upon the fact that I am not
always quite myself-Vinnis"-
The man he spoke of sprang to his
feet with a snarl like a trapped beast.
"Sit down-you."
BAT
10-
AT Sands, with his red head close
cropped. thrust his chair in the
direction of the infuriated Vinnis.
ne
"What Connor says is true-we're
as
not going to croak the old man, and
we're not going to croak ourselves. If
we hang, it will be something worth
amiable one, but another-upon find- hanging for. As to the old man, he's
ing that I could not rent or hire the soft, an that's all you can say. He's
got to be kept close"--
"Yes, yes," said Connor eagerly.
"A most admirable young man,"
BAT, leaning forward to catch what old George rambled on, "but very in-
might be a confession, sank back quisitive. I remember once, when I
again in his seat and swore softly. was addressing a large congregation
In the house of J. Jones, Builder of young men at Cheltenham-or it rooms-as indeed I could not. Mr.
and Contractor," were gathered in may have been young ladies-I" Connor, without your permission-en-
strength the men who composed the "Curse the man!" cried Goyle in a
"Borough Lot."
fury. "Make him answer, or stop his
mouth."
Connor warned him back.
gaged me in conversation-very loudly
he spoke, too-on the relative values
of cabbage and carrot as food for
herbaceous mammals. Where the ami-
"Suppose he gave us away," asked
Goyle, "what shall we do with him?"
There was little doubt as to the "Let him talk in his own way," he able gentleman was at that moment
feeling of the meeting. A low. animal said.
growl, startling in its ferocity, ran
through the gathering.
-0-
"Ts "IIS admirable person." the old
"If he's given us away"-it was man went on, happily striking on
Vinnis with his dull fishlike eyes the subject again, "desired informa-
turned upon Connor who was talk-tion that I was not disposed to give,
ing-"why, we must 'out' him."
Mr. Connor, remembering your many
"You're talking like a fool," said kindnesses. particularly in respect to
Connor contemptuously. "If he has one Mr. Vinnis."
given us away, you may rest assured
"Yes, go on," urged Connor, and
that he is no sooner in this house the face of Vinnis was tense.
I cannot say"
"I can guess," thought Connor.
"I can remember the occasion well,"
A rap at the door cut him short,
"Who's that?" he whispered.
Connor tiptoed to the locked door.
"Who's there?" he demanded.
A familiar voice reassured him, and
he opened the door and held a con-
versation in a low voice with some-
body outside.
11
"There's a man who wants to see
old George continued, "because that me," he said in explanation. "Lock
night I was alarmed and startled by the door after I leave, Bat," and hea
strange noises from the empty rooms went out quickly.
upstairs, which I very naturally and
properly concluded were caused".
-0-
NOT a word was spoken, but ench
after his own fashion of reason-
HE stopped, and glancing fearfully ing drew some conclusion from Con-
about the room, went on in a nor's hasty departure.
lower tone.
"By certain spirits." he whispered
mysteriously, and pointed and leered
first at one and then another of the
occupants of the room.
"A full meetin." croaked a voice
from the back of the room. "We're all
asked here by Connor. Is it a plant?"
That was Bat's thought too.
than the whole place will be sur- "I fear there are times when my
rotunded by police. It Angel knows old usually active mind takes on a slug-
George is one of us, he'll be watched gishness which is foreign to my char-
day and night, and the cab that brings acter-my normal character"-old
him will be followed by another bring- George was again the pedant "when
ing Angel. No, l'il stake my life on the unobservant stranger might be de
the old man. But I want to know how ceived into regarding me as a negli- the performance of the strange old last week because there wasn't evi-
Mr. Cursed Angel got into the house gible quantity. The admirable soung
next door."
-0-
man so far treated me as such as to
remark to his companion that there
THEY had not long to wait, for was a rope-ses, distinctly a rope-
Bat's knock enme almost as Con- for the said Mr. Vinnis."
nor tinished speaking.
Half led. half dragged into the
room, old George stood. fumbling his
bat in his hand, smiling helplessly
at the dark: faces that met his. He
muttered something under his breath,
"What's that?" asked Connor
sharply.
"I said 'a gentieman'"
began
old George, then lapsed into silence.
"What gentleman?" asked Connor
roughly.
"I am speaking of myself." said the
old man, and there came into his face
a curious expression of dignity. "I say,
and I maintain, that a gentlentan is a
gentleman whatever company he af-
fects. At my old college I once re-
proved an undergradunte." He was
speaking with stately, almost pompous
distinctness, "I said, "There is an ax-
iom to which I would refer you, De
gustibus nor cat disputandum, and-
and" "
-0-
DIS shaking fingers went up again
to the telltale mouth, and the
vacant smile came back.
"Look here," said Connor, shaking
his arm, "we don't want to know any-
thing about your damned college; we
want to know how Angel got into our
crib."
The old man looked puzzled.
The face of Vinnis was livid.
"No," he said: "there's nothin'
There was something very eerie in against us. Why, Angel let us off only
man with the queerly working face, dence, an' Connor's straight."
and more than one hardened criminal
present shivered a little.
"I don't trust him, by God!" said
Connor broke the silence that fell
on the room.
"So that's how it was done, eh?
One held you in conversation while
the other got upstairs and hid him-
self? Well, boys, you've heard the old
man. What d'ye say?"
Viunis.
"I trust nobody," said Bat dogged-
ly. "but Connor's straight"--
There was a rap on the door.
"Who's there?"
"All right!" said the mufiled voice.
-0-
BAT unlocked the door and Connor
came in. What he had seen or
VINNIS shifted in his seat and what be bad heard had brought about
turned his great unemotional face ja narvelous change in his appearance
-his cheeks were a dull red and his
eyes blazed with triumph.
to where the old man stood. still fum-
bling with his hat and muttering to
himself beneath his breath; in some
strange region whither his poor wan-
dering mind had taken him he was
holding a conversation with an imag-
"Boys," he said, and they caught
the infectious thrill in his voice, "I've
got the biggest thing for you-a mil-
lion pounds, share and share alike."
inary person. Connor could see his eye-TIE felt rather than heard the ex-
brows working, and caught scraps of 1 citement his words caused. He
tongue, now in the stilled English of stood with his back to the balf-opened
sentences, now in some strange dend
the schoolmaster.
It was Vinnis who spoke for the
assembled company.
"The old man knows a darned sight
too much," he said in his level tone.
"I'm for"---
-0-
E did not finish his sentence. Con-
nor took a swift survey of the
HE
men.
door.
"I'm going to introduce a new pal,"
he rattled on breathlessly. "I'll vouch
for him."
"Who is he?" asked Bat. "Do we
know him?"
"No," said Connor, "and you're not
expected to know him. But he's put-
ting up the money, and that's good
enough for you, Bat-a hundred
pounds a man, and it will be paid to-
night."
Bat Sands spat on his hand.
1
Γ
"If there is any man here," he said
slowly, "who wants to wake up at 7
o'clock in the morning, and meet a
gentleman who will strap his hands and there was a murmur of approval.
behind him and a person who will
pray over him if there's any man
"Bring him in. He's good enough,"
(Continued Tomorow.)
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.