O'MEARA AND BUSCH
TO 'MAKE UP', VIEW
sought at the hands of Kelly, and is after a trial of charges against, hini. dress by Mr. Bryant, urging the Coun- although Mr. Graham had made the
said to have been promised it after the Howard Bryant, President, unofficially cilmen who had participated in pre announcement in what he considered
election.
has ruled that the Council has no con- vious combats on the floor to forget good faith. Mr. Bryant voted for the
trol over its members during a recess.
Mr. Busch also wanted the vice- The fist fight took place the night their grievances, forgive one another, appropriation the following day, bow-
presidency of the Council and Kelly after the Council had begun its Christ be good boys and have a happy Christ- ever, after digging up several expendi-
threw his support to him in the cau-
mas recess.
cus, giving him the nomination. Mr.
Grievances Will Be Settled O'Meara sought revenge from that
Before Council Meets, Ob- minute, and the Republicans, who
needed but one vote to put through
their program of control, were quick
to take advantage of Mr. O'Meara's
NO TRIAL HELD LIKELY state of mind.
servers Predict.
Never Forgave O'Mears.
:
O'Meara's Strength Questioned:
The question many at the City Hall
are asking is:
mas.
tures for other than municipal pur-
poses that had been approved by the
board.
Cement Porchase Controversy.
Considered As Insurgent,
Mr. Briscoe, a Democrat, was an
insurgent, in Mr. Albrecht's mind. He
"Can Mr. O'Meara retain sufficient had refused to sign the favorable re-
control of his district to win anotlier port of the Ways and Means Com- Finally, there was the controversy-
election as a Demoerta if he continues mittee on the budget ordinance and a over the purchase of four car londs of
his alliance with the Republicans?" favorable report of the Committee on cement from the Hudson Building
Mr. O'Meara does not call it an al- Education (of which he is chairman) Supply Company, Inc., of which Wil-
Outwitted and bitterly disappointed liance with the Republicans. He says on the resolution requesting the mau- liam F. Broening, Jr., son of the
Démocratic Leaders Hope To in his ambitions, Mr. Busch never for- he is a "free agent" in the Council agers of the Colored House of Re- Mayor, is vice-president and secretary.
gave Mr. O'Meara, and was the only and "is as free as a bird in a forest." formation at Cheltenham to employ
The cost of cach car load was in
man in the Council to ignore him With the fistic encounter between Negro teachers and supervisors ex- excess of the $500 contract provision
after the heat of the battle over the Mr. O'Meara and Mr. Busch as the clusively in the institution.
Registership had passed. That their outstanding event. 'the City Hall had
differences would be settled only by an unusually large place in the local
their fists was predicted months ago, news last week. And the City Council
and the fight at the New Lithuanian- had the lion's share of it.
Gain Control Of Body By
Outcome, It Is Said.
By WALTER L. ALEXANDER,
City Hall Reporter of The Sun.
at the City Hall.
The outcome of the listic encounter Democratic Club really did not sur- Albrecht's Attack Cited.
last Wednesday night between James prise their friends. The surprise was First, there was William G. Al-
J. O'Meara, vice-president of the City that it did not take place sooner, and brecht's oral attack on Philander B.
Briscoe over the ordinance amending
Council, and Frank F. Busch, 'n mem- Naturally the Republicans are not the zoning regulations for Roland ave-
ber of the Council from the Sixth dis- keen for a reconciliation between Mr. nue. Mr. Albrecht charged that Mr.
trict, is the chief topic of gossip at the O'Meara and his party, and they ridi- Briscoe opposed the ordinance for
City Hall.
And finally he opposed the report
of the Committee on Buildings and
Building Regulations, of which he is a
member, on the Roland avenue zon
ing measure. Mr. Albrecht said it
was "about all he could stand" from
Mr. Briscoe and pitched into him,
orally, of course.
of the charter, and Mr. Bryant, as
acting Mayor, approved the bills with-
out having examined them. His atten-
tion was called to it by Mr. Graham
and Herbert Fallin, director of the
Bureau of Disbursements.
The bills were approved by the
Board of Estimates as a result of the
publication of the purchases along
Graham Called To Account. with bills of more than $500 for sup-
Mr. Bryant furnished the next news plies for the Baltimore City Hospitals,
feature by calling R. Walter Graham, and the indications are that in future
ale the suggestion that such a recon- "personal reasons" because Mr. Mar City Comptroller, to account for an- the Board of Estimates will be con-
ciliation will take place. Indicating chant, who was counsel for property nouncing that the Board of Estimates sulted before purchases in excess of
that he wanted no assistance from his owners behind the measure, had had approved payment to Mayor $500 are made and the bills paid.
Some seem to think that, through
the good offices of their friends, Mr. own party, Mr. O'Meara's first act, "dragged him into the recent Coun- Broening of $7,055 on account of the
O'Mcara and Mr. Busch will patch up after deciding to have Mr. Busch ar- cilmanic tax cases, designed to unseat repairs to his home made necessary
their grievances, which are political, rested on the charge of assault, was two Republicans and three Demo by the explosion last August.
before the vase comes up for trial in
the Criminal Court..
"If this plan is followed hereafter,
as it should be followed, a good day's
work was done for the city when the
Mr. Bryan had not voted for the cement and hospital purchases were
Marchant, Republican leader in the It was a merry clash, and was fol- appropriation and, said he felt that brought to the attention of the public,"
city and the mainstay of the Broening lowed by a good-will Christmas ad something was being put over ou bin, Mr. Bryant said,
to employ as his counsel Roland R. crats."
A good many observers appear to administration. Mr. O'Mcara hastened
see in such a culmination of the case to explain, however, that he did not
a cementing of the Democratic group employ Mr. Marchant because he (Mr.
in the Council and the return of Mr. Marchant) is a Republican..
O'Meara, inherently a Democrat, to Both Forgiving, Friends Say.
the councils of his party. This seems Mr. O'Meara's friends say he is of
to be the aim of the Democratic lead a forgiving disposition. Mr. Busch's
ers, as it would give them control of friends make the same claim for him.
the Council by one vote.
Both sides are looking forward to a
Elected On Same Ticket. peace pact between the two before
Mr. O'Meara and Mr. Busch were the Council reassembles on January
nominated and elected on the same 9, after the Christmas holiday recess.
ticket as Kelly Democrats. Both hail The belief at the City Hall is that
from the Sixth district. They have the assault case (Mr. Busch has made
not been on speaking terms since Mr. counter-charges against Mr. O'Meara)
O'Meara bolted the caucus of the will never come to trial in the Crimi-
Democratic members of the Council nal Court and that the Council will
in Frank Kelly's club on West Fay not hear of it officially, although Mr.
ette street last spring and helped the O'Meara bas said that he will insti-
Republicans eleet their candidate for tute proceedings for the ousting of Mr.
City Register, giving Mayor Broening Busch.
control of the Board of Awards. With It is pointed out that such proceed-
the aid of the Republicans, Mr. ings would not be successful anyway,
O'Mcara became vice-president of the since a three-fourths vote of the Coun-
Council. It was the only office he cil is necessary to expel a member
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.