Júdge Who Sentenced Boys
Silent On Ritchie's Probe
Governor "May Settle Questions He Is Concerned
With And I Will Settle Mine," Says Jurist
Of Penal Investigation.
1
Judge William M. Loker, of the rection to the Cheltenham Reforma-
Seventh Judicial Circuit, last night de- tory, He said that he was unable to
clined to defend or explain his action understand why such young boys were
iu sentencing two Negro boys, one 13 sent to the House of Correction.
and, the other 15, to the House of Cor-
Governor Ritchie also pointed out
rection for forgery and larceny, re- that the county from which the boys
spectively.
were sentenced does not have to pay
Governor Ritchie yesterday initiated part of the cost for keeping them,
an investigation into the cases after he since they were sentenced to the House
had been informed that the boys were of Correction.
serving terms in the penal institution If they were sentenced to a reforma-
by. Stuart S. Janney, director of the tory, the Governor continued, St.
State Department of Welfare.
Mary's county would have to bear part
of the cost.
Will Settle Own Questions.
"I have no comment to make on
mine."
4
State's Attorney Explains.
Despite the Governor's assertion that
the subject," Judge Loker said. "Gov-
ernor Ritchie may settle the questions he was unable to understand how a boy
he is concerned with and I will settle 13 years ol-could commit forgery,
Philip H. Dorsey, State's Attorney for
The boys were sentenced by Judge St. Mary's county, declared that the
Loker during the March term of the signature forged by Clarence Jones-
St. Mary's County Circuit Court.
the boy in question was a very apt
tenced for eighteen months.
The investigation was begun after reproduction of original. He was sen
Stuart S. Janney, director of the State
Department of Welfare, had reported
the matter to Mr. Ritchie.
Seeks Boys' Transfer.
After learning of the ease yesterday
the Governor sought to have the, boys
transferred from the House of Cor
4
Mr. Dorsey added that the boy was
indicted on the charge of forging one
check-for $14-but had forged another
and admitted his guilt.
1
The other Negro, Hadman Holt, 15,
was accused of stealing an automobile
He was sentenced to serve a year.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.