CHRISTMAS SPIRIT
SHOWN IN COUNCIL
the boys and the officials of the institu-
tion at Christmas.
"I think that we ought also as in-
dividuals to send them $50 for the
things that go with ice cream, and I
am going to ask Mr. Mueller (George
Mueller, assistant committee clerk,)
Members In Clashes At Pre- to pass around the hat for a Christmas
vious Meetings Shake
Hands.
gift for the boys."
Mr. Harris suggested that Walter
S. Emerson, Fourth district, one of
the Negro members of the Council,
take charge of the ice cream and
ADJOURNS UNTIL JAN. 9 Christmas treat.
Body Passes Tax Rate And Other
Ordinances-Budget Bill
Signed.
Hat Is Passed Around.
Mr. Bryant announced that he
would have to rule out of order the
movement to have the hat passed
while the Council was in session.
"The hat can be passed during a
recess of the Council, but not while
With all the members present the we are in session," Mr. Bryant said.
City Council last night passed the A recess of five minutes then was
various 1028 tax-rate ordinances under
suspensions of the rules and adjourned
until 5 P. M. January 9.
The municipal budget ordinance for
1028 was signed by Howard Bryant,
Acting Mayor, before the Council went
into session.
declared by unanimous consent and
Mr. Mueller collected $58, which was
turned over to Emerson, who thanked
the members of the Council for the
gift, and gave assurance of the boys'
appreciation.
"In reporting the resolution regard-
ing Cheltenham the Committee on
After the Council had cleared the Education had in mind basic changes
calendar of measures that had been nt the institution that would improve
scheduled for passage Mr. Bryant its condition permanently," Mr. Elli-
made a Christmas good-will address. son asserted.
He recalled the recent clashes in the The Council passed thirty measures,
Council over the salary increases for including the ordinance changing from
the members and the Roland avenue the cottage ("F") to the solid row
zoning amendment ordinances. Mr. ("D") zoning classification property
Bryant referred to them as the "little in the area between Vickers road,
unpleasantness," and added:
Gwynns Falls Parkway, Hilton street
"I do not think it is doing the gen and Longwood street, introduced by
tlemen of the City Council who in Thomas L. A. Musgrave, Fifth dis-
dulge in personalities any good. They trict.
are not doing themselves any good, and
they are not doing the Council any
good.
"In the spirit of Christmas I hope
the gentlemen will forgive one another
and forget all about past squabbles.
Let us all have a happy Christmas."
Albrecht Makes Apology.
William G. Albrecht, Republican,
Fifth district, who twice assailed Phi-
Jander B. Briscoe, Democrat, Second
district, and also said some sharp
things to John P. Brandau, Republi-
can, Third district, and Daniel Ellison,
Fourth district, Republican leader, for
opposing the salary increases for the
Council in the Ways and Means Com-
mittee, was the first to respond to Mr.
Bryant's appeal.
"I am the one who has had the most
to say and who indulged in personali-
ties when I felt that some of the mem-
bers of the Council deserved it," Mr.
Albrecht said. "What is in me comes
ont, and it always comes out the way
I feel. If I have said anything that bas
offended any one in this Council I want
to apologize."
Five minutes Inter Mr. Albrecht was
shaking hands with Mr. Briscoe, Mr.
Ellison and Mr. Brandau, and Mr.
Bryant was beaming.
"That's right," he said. "Now be
good boys."
Put In False Light, He Says.
Arising to a question of personal
privilege, Samuel Y. Harris, a Sixth
district Kelly Democrat, said he was
"sorry THE SUN put me in a false
light when it said this morning that I
quoted you, Mr. President, in your ab-
sence last night, as suggesting that it
(the resolution requesting the man-
agers of the House of Reformation to
employ Negro supervisors and teach-
ers for the institution) was a matter
the Council should not take up."
Mr. Bryant, it was recalled, made
the statement when the resolution was
first before the Council three weeks
ago.
Trent Planned For Negro Boyx.
Explaining his position in the mat-
ter, Mr. Harris said:
"I do not let color or creed enter
into my thoughts," and added:
"If we really have such a devout in-
terest in these poor boys (the Negro
boys in Cheltenham) let us prove it.
Let us make them happy for once in
their lives. I will furnish ice cream for
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.