'TWAS ST. GEORGE'S DAY;
SO NEVINSON DREAMED
At Cheltenham Memories Of Dead Kings Pass Before
Him, And Of Simon De Montfort And Stern
Cromwell, And Old George III Chatters.
By HENRY W. NEVINSON,
[Special Correspondence of The Sun.]
CHELTENHAM, St. George's Day. country would soon he wanting every
Yes, this is St. George's Day-"St. penny for its preservation? I have found
George for England" that has so long no one who can answer those questions.
been Old, and once was Merry. And it
:
-0-
is Shakespeare's birthday-Shakespeare But as I stood yesterday evening
born on the Avon which joins the Sev- meditating upon departed kings, from
ern at Tewkesbury barely nine miles the stern Conqueror downward to the
away-Tewkesbury, where the Bene-French royal families who here found
dictines built the great Norman Abbey, refuge from the spasmodic furies of
and where poor Edward, Prince of Paris, I perceived a strange and shad-
Wales, was mercilessly slain, leaving owy little figure at my side. He was
his mother, Margaret Anjou, to mourn, dressed in blue tailcoat, trimmed with
as Shakespeare quotes her mourning. gold braid, and blue breeches, with silk
And there, buried in solid, earth, lies stockings to match. On his head was a
poor maudlin Clarence, once drowned little wig, with a foot of pigtail hang-
in his butt of malmsey, by a rosal ing down behind, tied with a black rib-
brother's command. And there in the bon bow, and his face was cast in that
choir stands an organ adorned with dull and unimaginative mold that has
trumpeting cherubs, all built in the very for two centuries characterized most of
year when Milton was writing "Ls- our royal family. Recognizing kingship,
cidas," the noblest lyric in our language. I took off my hat, as became a true
And not far away, hardly more than British subject, and the shadow an-
an hour's run by motor, stands Eve- swered politely in a thick and hesitating
sham, also beside the Avon, where voice.
Simon de Montfort fell, in our long-
drawn battle for freedom, having just "Yes," he said, "you are right. I
created the very first of all Parliaments am indeed the spirit of poor old George
in the world.
III, who made the fortune of this pleas-
And Shakespeare's Avon itself rises ant town by coming here to drink the
among the uplands of Naseby, where waters in the hope of curing his afflic-
Cromwell smote the "Malignant Ene-tion."
mies of the Lord" less than thirty years "I dimly remember reading of the oe-
after Shakespeare's widow was lament-casion, your Majesty," I replied. "It
ing over his body. And only forty was in 1788 when your Majesty's brain
showed the first signs of that collapse
miles away rise the spires of Oxford, which darkened the final years of your
adorable dreamer. And hardly nine long and glorious reign."
miles in the opposite direction stands "My poor head! Oh, my poor head!"
Gloucester upon Severn, where also the murmured the royal shade. "Yes, that
Norman monks began to build a noble was the time. They told me the waters
church, that now shows in itself a sum- would cure sthenic dyspepsia, plethora,
mary of English history and art even glycosuria, anemic dyspepsin, gastro-
duodenal catarrh, mucous colitis, tox-
æmia, myalgia, torticollis and other
up to the present day.
-0-
So one event of time follows another, forms of fibrositis, but I suppose those
and the actors in cach are quietly swept were not the diseases I suffered from.
away, leaving but a trace here and there What? What? What? For I got no
upon some stone, or a name connected better, no matter how much I drank."
with their fate. But still the rivers run "Alas! your Majesty," I replied,
down till they meet. And still the great "there is no water can minister to a
"Bore" rushes up from the Bristol mind diseased. It was Pitt and not the
Channel when the moon is full, and waters that saved you from being shut
pushes back the Severn water till the up as a lunatic before your time."
lower streets of Gloucester itself are
flooded. And there still stands Bredon "William Pitt!" cried the shadow.
Hill, where the lovers lay and the noisy "He was a fine young fellow, was Wil-
bells called them to church in vain. You liam Pitt! He stood up for his worthy
remember-
old master against that runagate son
of mine. A pretty boy was George!
"In summer tinie on Bredon
The bells they sound so clear." But a runagate, sir, always a runagate,
From generation to generation the great always chasing one female or another
realities of man and nature have hardly and always running us into debt. But
changed, and yesterday I was listening he was the only good-looking one of
to three heavy farmers who spoke the the family, and the only one with any
tongue and thought the thoughts of Jus- wits.
tice Shallow and his cousin Silence, "Thirteen of them dear, good Sophie
when they talked of "Will Squele, a bore to me. and all but George were
Cotswold man" (those are the Cots. dullards. The Duke of York, the Duke
wolds, just over there!), and asked, of Clarence, who got to be William IV,
"How a good yoke of bullocks at Stam. the Duke of Kent, father of Queen Vic-
ford Fair," and reflected that death was toria; the King of Hanover, the Duke
certain, and old Double, who shot a fine of Sussex, the Duke of Cambridge-
what a set! And our six daughters be-
sides, poor girls! Enough to turn any-
one's brains. It wasn't fair of dear,
good Sophie to present me with such a
number."
shoot, was dead, and "How a score of
ewes now?"
Those farmers only yesterday said al-
most word for word the same the same
-old language, the same old Gloucester-
shire accent, the same old reflections on
life and interest in the prices of ewes
and bullocks.
10-
"Console yourself, sire," 1 replied.
"your granddaughter Victoria was called
the Great White Queen, and had occa-
sional gleams of genius. Your great-
Nothing that really matters is changed grandson was the popular figure who
even in this neat and tidy town, where caresses the ragged little girl upon that
gallant veterans of war and worthy In- statue. Your great-great-grandson is
dian civiliaus, who have been for years our present dull but deserving king.
governing provinces half as large as our Your great-great-great-grandson is the
island, come to while away their few re- Prince of Wales, known as Prince
maining years in pottering about on golf Charming, especially among the ladies
links or sitting together in clubs, leis- of America. Is not that reward enough
urely assuring each other that England for your virtuous life?"
is doomed, while their pretty grand- "America?" cried the shadowy king,
daughters practice archery in the grassy "Did you have the impudence to men-
gardens with much the same bows and tion America to me? Those rebel colo-
arrows as slaughtered the French at nists-those traitors who dared to defy
Cressy.
my royal command-those wretched up-
At the top of the Promenade, lined starts who called our hereditary enemies
with weeping willows, in which the to the aid of their treason! Oh, my poor
staring owls sing at nightfall, stands the head! My poor head! It begins to
Queen's Hotel, white, dignified, expan- quiver again when I think of those
sive, as though inviting all respectable abandoned criminals and their archfiend
people into its embrace. And in front of Washington. And now you say an off-
its classic columns are drawn up two
spring of our royal house goes among
the accursed deserters as a friend and
smiles upon their so-called ladies? O
Chatham, O Rockingham, O Lord North,
will you not rise from your graves to
join me in the cry of 'Shame'!"
Russian guns taken at Sevastopol in the
Crimean War-two smooth-bore guns,
fit to fling a round shot bounding over
the earth like a cricket ball for full 400
yards.
And beside, the Promenade itself is
a memorial to those soldiers of the town
who were killed in the Boer War (how agitated that I feared he would melt
well I remember the Gloucesters, and away like jelly, and so, to comfort him,
the sudden deaths of many one sunshine I hastily observed:
--
The dear old fellow seemed so terribly
morning at Ladysmith!). And a little "But, your Majesty, those rebel col-
further up is the awful column inscribed onies have now developed into one of
with the names of nearly 1,300 young the great nations of the world. They
men of Cheltenham who went to France are the richest and almost the most nu-
ten years ago and never came home. merous of peoples. Most of them speak
10-
And near those archery grounds one
can detect a bronze statuo crected in a
moment of democratic enthusiasm to
King William IV, to commemorate his
graciousness in allowing the great Re-
form act of 1832 to pass, though I hard-
ly suppose that most stupid of all our
kings cared "a tinker's damn" about re-
form one way or other.
a language very much like our own. A
few are quite attached to your own peo-
ple and boast that they even helped us
in a recent war on behalf of those he-
reditary enemies, the French,
"Some, it is true, have lately revived
the cry, 'Down with King George!" and
by King George they mean your Maj-
esty's great-great-grandson. But no one
on earth knew why they were shouting
it, and, so far as those rebel colonists
And most amazing to me of all, at
the top of the main avenue leading to
go, our King George V sits quite com-
Gloucester, some wild royalist or council fortably upon his ancestral throne and
has set up a marble statue of Edward sleeps well at night, though he wears a
VII in shooting jacket and knicker- crown. I think your policy was not
bockers, fondly caressing the tangled particularly wise, but in the end it has
hair of a ragged girl aged about 10, proved remarkably successful."
There is no explanation, no inscrip-
-0-
tion, but the letters "E. R. 1914." Poor But the old gentleman was not to be
Edward Rex had then been four years consoled by any news of America's
dead, and the country stood upon the greatness.
dizzy edge of our most hideous' war. "Never tell me," he cried, "that trea-
When had Edward ever caressed the son prospers."
disheveled head of a ragged little girl? "If it prospers, none dares call it trea-
Why had some one lavished all that son," I replied, and as the rosal spirit
moner, unor such a queer memorial, just vanished I I heard the owls echoing his
at the time when the town and the murmur of "What? What? What?"
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.