To Hold Services Monday
For Confederate Soldiers
Memorial services for Confederate
soldiers will be held at 4 1. M. Monday
in London Park Cemetery under און-
pices of the Maryland Division. United
Daughters of the Confetieracy.
The services will be conducted by the
Rev Dr. William Page Dame, rector of
Memorial Protestant Episcopal Church,
and the Rer. Dr. Wyatt Brown, rector
of St. Michael and All Angels Protes-
tant Episcopal Church.
A full vested choir of Mount Calvary
Protestant Episcopal Church will sing.
Flowers for the graves may be left at
the cemetery gate or at the home of
Mrs. Engene H. Beer, 1213 Entaw
Place
?
5 Sent To Reformatory
In Cases Of False Alarms
Negro Boys Arrested Following In-
quiry By Northwestern Dis-
trict Police.
An investigation by the police into
the number of false fire alarms in the
Northwestern district resulted in the ar-
raignment yesterday before Judge
Samuel Lasch in the Juvenile Court of
tive Negro boys on charges of sounding
false alarms, setting fire to a vacant
house and pilfering fruit from a dealer.
According to the testimony the boys
sounded three false fire alarms for the
purpose of seeing the apparatus. They
set tire to a vacant house in the rear of
547 MeMechen street and stole fruit
from a dealer, it was testified. They
did not deny the charges against them.
All tive boys were committed by
Judge Lasch to the Colored House of
Iteformation at Cheltenham.
PERSONALTY PUT AT $131,117
Stocks And Bonds of Late Miss
M. S. Kennedy Valued at $127,559.
The minature of her cousin, the late
Mrs. Harriet Lane Johnston, which
Miss May S. Kennedy bequeathed to the
National Gallery of Art in Washington.
was appraised at $5 in the inventory
of Miss Kennedy's personalty tiled yes-
terday in the Orphans' Court.
The total of the appraisement was
$131,117.64. It comprised bonds and
stocks valued at $127,550; household
and personal effects at 1524 Bolton
street, $905.75, and $2.652.80 in cash.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.