Miller General Creditors
To Receive 15 Per Cent.
Auditor's Report Shows $9,051 Le.
For Distribution After
Deductions.
The auditor's report on the estato
of the late Mrs. Alice M. Miller, filed
yesterday in the Circuit Court, shows
that the general creditors of Mrs. Mil
ler will receive fifteen per cent. of theit
claims. The claims against the fund
in the receivers hands totaled $7.
950.57. After deducting $4,488.23 pre-
ferred claims, the receivers commis
sions and court costs, the sum available
for distribution was $0,051.84. The
amount to be. distributed principally
consists of the proceeds from insurance
policies on the life of Mrs. Miller.
The report was filed in the case of
the Baltimore Finance Corporation
against Mrs. Miller and her sister, Mrs.
Flora E. Reed. Mrs. Miller was the
proprietor of the Arts and Crafts Cen-
er, on North Charles street. It was
letermined by the court that. Mrs.
Miller committed suicide by jumping
rom a window of Mercy Hospital last
July and that Mrs. Reed was not a
mrtner in her business enterprise. Sev-
ral insurance policies issued to Mrs.
Jiller were voided because she commit-
ed suicide less than a year after she
btained them. The report will be sub-
eet to exception until Thursday.
Two Injured As Auto
Strikes Baby Carriag
Children Walking Alongside Per
ambulator Hurt And Infant
Is Shaken Up.
Two children received slight cuts and
bruises and nu infant in a baby carriag
was shaken up when an automobil
Inst night struck the carriage and the
two small children walking beside it
Joseph Luttrell, 200 block North Mon
roe street, father of the children, whe
was pushing the carriage, escaped in
jury. The accident occurred at Balti
more and Monree streets. Morris Gold
serg, 2800 block West North avenue
Iriver of the car, was summoned to ap
Dear in the Traffic Court Wednesday.
William Claiborne, Negro. 32 years
ld. 1400 block Traction street, was
held at the Northwestern Police Sta
ion last night on a charge of causing
he death of Robey Lee Morton, col-
ored, 2 years old. 1100 block MeCul-
oh street. who was killed yesterday
fternoon when struck by a coal truck.
Claiborne, the police said, abandoned
is truck after the Negro girl was
truck. He was arrested later.
Charged With: Attempting
To Wreck B. & O. Train
Negro Boy, 14. Sent To Reforma
tory Until He Is 21-11-
other Paroled.
Two colored boys, William Brown, 14
and James Hill, 13, were arraigned yes
terday before Judge T. J. C. Williams
in the Juvenile Court on a charge of
attempting to wreck a railroad train.
Brown was committed to the Colored
House of Reformation at Cheltenham
until he is 21 years old aud Hill was re-
lensed on parole:
The testimony showed that the boys
were seen to place a railroad tie aeross
the tracks of the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad at English Consul, near the
junction of that railroad with the
Washington. Baltimore and Annapolis
Electric Railroad.
The Negroes denied they were nt-
tempting to wreck a train. They said
they were playing with the tie and
when it fell across the track they left
it there.
FOREIGN WAR "VETS" BANQUET
Private W. H. Rotan Post Holds
Annual Event.
Private William H. Rotan Post. No.
219, Veterans of Foreign Wars, held its
reventh anniversary banquet at the War
Memoriai last night. A sketch of Private
Rotan, who was killed in France, made
by Louis P. Cullen, of the post, was
presented to his mother, Mrs. Marietta
Rotan.
Among the speakers were Col. Claude
B. Sweezer. Col. R. A. Grammes, Chap
lait. Walter K. Lloyd. Rabbi Edward L.
Israel and W. E. Severe, of the United
States Veterans' Bureau. Announce-
ment of plans for the new home for the
post at 200 South Gilmor street was
made by J. J. MeGuirk, post commander.
Herbert C. Bowers, chairman of the ar-
rangements committee, presided.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.