An Institution of Importance Bad-
ly In Need Of Increased Appro-
priations.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir:
An Institution needing increased appro-
priations is the Colored House of
Reformation. Cheltenham, Md. The
State and Baltimore use this institution
for delinquent colored boys, and for this
service the State appropriates only
$15,000 a year.
Is the Free State fully awake to the
importance to the community of the
Colored House of Reformation? Are
public-spirited uplifters, the well wish-
ers of youth, whether white or colored,
doing their duty? Is it because the
management of the Colored House of
Reformation has been carrying a load
for the city and state for years, striv-
ing to balance a budget, working under
disadvantages, lacking political environ-
ment?
Maryland philanthropists are noted in
many fields, but, barring the late Enoch
Pratt and possibly a few others, their
purse strings have never been unloosed
for this beneficial cause. The slogan
"let George do it" seems to be in order,
yet should the Board of Managerą de-
cide to curtall or close the institution,
due to state, city or public indifference,
an outers would go forth.
H. D.
Baltimore, May 28.
Public Comfort Stations,
Το THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir:
The Public Service Commission should
pay attention to the modern necessities
for the ever-increasing auto travelers.
For drawing conclusions I will cite
here a few cases,
Last Monday a party of indies from
one of the churches in Baltimore was
on a trip to Gettysburg and stopped
with their autobus in Westminster to
find that an official of the Western
Maryland Railway had locked the Indies
toilet room and refused to open it.
The same thing happened to a party
last year when the writer escorted his
fatnily to a lunchroom and, after giving
the order for lunch, was told that West-
minster had no accommodation for trav-
elers. Since then we have given West-
minster a wide berth. There is a very
good eating house near Taneytown,
where sometimes as many as 500 din-
ners are served, with only one little
toilet room for ladies.
That shows conclusively that public
The Park Heights Section De- comfort stations with slot machines
would be a paying investment for little
town's on much-traveled roads.
pendent On Distant Fire Engine
Houses.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir:
Residents of the Park Heights section
north of Rogers avenue are not su
prised at the accident which happened
at the tire at Windsor Hills.
Baltimore, June 2.
A. F. TRAPPE,
Is This Nobody's Businesst
TO THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir:
This condition of "late arrival of en-I would like to ask, through your col-
gines" is an overyday occurrence in this umns, why so much speeding and reck-
section, as the engine houses are at less driving are allowed on Park Heights
quite a distance. The city is too poor avenue, between Belvedere avenue and
to give this section one..
Pikerville?
Do not put the blame on the firemen,
but on the city administration for lack
of equipment. What can a tireman do
with one line of hose to reach a house
when it is on fire on four sides and not
able to place another hose for lack of
some? A house atire in our section can
get a good headway before the engines
arrive, and by the time the second one
arrives the building is usually doomed.
We pay inxes, but what do we get?
COMMON SENSE.
Baltimore, June 2.
I have been working on Park Heights
avenue about fire weeks and during that
time have seen but one policeman and
he was going so fast he left a blue
streak behind him, In the morning, be-
tween S and 9, the fathead chuirwarmers
and their kind are the main pests, and
between 2 and 4.30 P. M. the delivery
trucks from the different stores, lounge
lizards and other loafers burn the road
without anyone 10 check their crazy
driving.
HOW CONE.
Baitimore, June 2.