URGES JIM CROW
LAW BE REPEALED
Interracial Body Says Act
Places Hardships On State
Negroes.
STATUTE PASSED IN 1904
Commission Makes Other Recom-
mendations In Report To Ritchie
And Legislature.
Repeal of the Jim Crow law, enacted
in 1004 by the Legislature to require
transportation companies to provide
separate places, for white and colored
passengers, was recommended yester-
day by the Maryland Interracial Com-
mission in its report to Governor
Ritchie and the General Assembly.
Repeal of the law was asked on the
ground that it places hardships on
Negro citizens of Maryland, but does
not affect interstate travelers. The
commission also stated that in its opin-
jon progress made by the Negro race
since 1004 has removed any reason for
the law which might have been in ex-
istence at the time it was enacted..
Would Amend School Code.
The commission asked that the school
code be amended to provide the same
minimum raté of pay in all the public
schools of the State and recommended
the, appointment of a Negro assistant
supervisor for the Negro schools. It also
asked that the appropriation for Mor-
gan College be made as liberal as pos-
sible.
The commission declared that in its
investigation of health conditions it had
found an alarmingly high death rate in
certain localities. It attributed much
of this to insanitary houses and sur-
roundings, overcrowding and inadequate
hoshital facilities. Much relief would
be afforded, the report said, by increas
ing the hospital accommodations for the
Negro population.
Industrial Situation Cited,
i
sion street, and extend financial aid
through a specific appropriation or the
creation of a number of free beds.
This, is was pointed out in a resolu-
tion presented by: Judge Joseph N. Ul-
man, "will provide service for as many
free colored patients as the hospital can
accommodate," with linical training for
In its study of the industrial and eco- Negro physicians and training for
nomic life of the Negroes of the State Negro nurses, "and private rooms for
the commission declared that many of such colored people as can afford to pay
the rucial and interracial difficulties for them."
were due to the lack of industrial and It was pointed out that it would be
economic opportunities for Negroes. a start toward a large general hospital,
The majority of the race are engaged in as the present service could be expanded
those occupations which pay small from time to time.
wages, it stated, and attributed to this As chairman of a subcommittee,
a neglect of education and health con- John L. Alcock reported that a munic-
ditions which would not prevail were ipal hospital, with 200 or 250 beds,
their opportunities greater.
would cost $1,500,000, with an addi-
The commission recommended. that tional annual expenditure of from $375,-
some provision of facilities be made by 000 to $400,000 for maintenance.
which Negro youths might fit them-
selves by scientific study for increased
usefulness in the mechanical arts and in
scientific industries generally.
In its report on public welfare, chari-
table and penal institutions the commis-
sion asked that the House of Reforma-
tion at Cheltenham be converted into a
State training school for Negro boys
and that the educational features be
placed under the State Department of
Education.
Makes Suggestion.
It recommended that if the board of
control of the institution would not con-
sent to the proposed change of charter
all grants from the State and Baltimore
city, be withdrawn and a State institu-
tion be organized.
The commission recommended that a
permanent interracial commission, com-
posed of white and Negro men and
women, be created, with a sufficient ap-
propriation to employ an executive who
could devote all his time to the study of
problems and to cooperate with other
I boards on racial and interracial matters.
It also asked that the appropriation be
large enough to maintain an office and
adequate assistants and to pay for other
miscellaneous necessities.
Personnel Of Commission,
John O. Spencer is chairman of the
commission and Charles W. Heuisler
treasurer. The other white members of
the commission are: Richard L. Cary,
Charles M. Cohn, Mrs. Alice B. Van
Doran, Ralph P. Gilmore, Mrs. George
H. Van Hollen, Harry. E. Parkhurst,
State Senator George C. Peverley, Ben-
jamin Schwartz, Judge Morris A. Soper,
John J. Stump and Albert G. Towers.
The Negro members of the commis-
sion are: Thomas J. Calloway, secre-
tary; the Rev. George F. Bragg, Wil-
liam L. Fitzgerald, Truly Hatchett,
Anna L. McMechen, the Rev. Albert J.
Mitchell, Carl Murphy and H. M. St.
Clair.
Recommends Old Hospital
Be Used By Negro Patients
A committee appointed to recommend
adequate hospital facilities for Negroes
yesterday decided that, instead of build-
ing a municipal hospital at this time,
the city should encourage the establish-
ment of a general institution at the old
Union: Protestant Infirmary. on Divi.
Mayor Jackson asked that the report
of Mr. Aleock's committee and Judge
Ulman's resolution be referred to him.
The Mayor said he would discuss the
situation with the Supervisors of City
|
Charities.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.