Defends The Management of The
Colored House of Correction At
Cheltenham.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir:
The recent grand jury of Baltimore
eity requested information from the
board of mangers and the superin-
tendent of the Colored House of Refor-
mation, Cheltenham, Md. This en-
lightenment could have been gleaned at
the institution or from those officers in
attendance in the grand jury rooms,
But, save the assistant superintendent,
who was appointed to that position sevs
eral days previous to the investigation.
none of the officials was called. Several
inmates were interviewed, one of whom
Was the cause of the inquiry. This
boy is totally unreliable as to truth
and ofttimes not amenable to dis-
cipline. He has been transferred three
times to other school cottage buildings
during the past. 18 months for brutally
attacking smaller boys and for other
offenses not printable.
The gist of the grand jury's report
was lack of discipline, improper food
and chastisements.
A proper knowledge of the institution
-the management, the inmates-would
show that Mr. John B. Pyles is emi-
nently fitted for the position of super-
intendent. Of even temperament, kind,
ever ready to hear patiently any com-
plaints from the boys, dealing out jus-
lice impartially, yet withal a strict dis-
ciplinarian,
The food question can best be an-
awered by a physical examination of
the boys. Dr. Bull, of the Johns Hop-
kins Hospital, has stated the boys were
in fine condition-healthy and hearty-
when last examined. They are so to-
day.
The disciplining of wayward home-
less boys is not an academic question;
it is concrete. The boys are sent to
the institution for major infringements
of the law, incorrigibility, truancy and
homeless. They have gotten beyond
parent and teacher.
hese boys have many liberties. The
windows are unbarred. See them at
school work or play. Then any carping
criticism through the press or other-
wise may be properly gauged,
Baltimore, Jan. 20.
VERITAS.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.