INQUIRY IS ORDERED
AT REFORM SCHOOL
Board To Make Investigation
At Cheltenham In-
stitution..
5 MEMBERS ARE ADDED
Charges By Grand Jury Against
Superintendent To Be
Taken Up.
With a view to clearing up the situn-
tion existing at the House of Reforma-
tion for Colored Boys, at Cheltenham,
Prince George's county, five additional
members and a president of the board of
managers have been named to meet with
other board members and make a thor-
ough investigation. The meeting will
be held at 2 P. M.. March 6, at 225
East Redwood street.
Nathaniel G. Grasty, secretary of the
Board of Supervisors of City Charities,
and William J. Ogden, secretary of the
State Board of Aid and Charities, ap-
peared before the old board and asked
for authority to name additional mem-
bers and a president for the purpose of
making a thorough and unbiased sur-
ver to discover if the criticism that has
been directed against the reformatory la
justified. The authority was given, Mr.
Grasty said yesterday, and assurances of
every possible cooperation were made.
Wessels To Head Board.
The new members are Walter B.
Wesscis, president; William II. Ponder;
Harold E. Donnell, superintendent of
the Maryland Training School for Boya;
Henry G. Riggs; Howard C. Hill, ex-
ecutive secretary of the Prisoners' Aid
Association of Maryland, and Henry E.
Trelde, wholesale notions.
In January the Baltimore grand jury
charged mismanagement of the institu-
tion and recommended the removal of
John B. Pyle as superintendent.
To Make Full Review.
Mr. Grasty declared yesterday that
at the meeting next month the entire
situation would be reviewed carefully
and that if foundation for the charges
were substantiated immediate steps
would be taken to correct the evils.
The institution in which 300 negro
boys are confined is surrounded by 1,200
acres of farın land, and the group in-
cludes a hospital, power house, dairy,
barns and other buildings. Two hun
dred of the inmates were committed by
the Baltimore Juvenile Court,
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.