The Trouble At Cheltenham.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir:
In a particular form the Cheltenham
institution is up for criticism before the
public. I do not address myself to the
present point of criticism, but to one of
vastly more practical importance.
believe I am the senior member of the
board of managers of that institution,
having been first elected by the sub-
scribers in 1901 and subsequently re-
elected each year since.
I
The institution should conform to the
State policy of colored teachers for
colored schools.. I pressed this point
as soon as I became a member of the
board, and have steadily advocated it
ever since. In the light of all the ex-
perience I have had with both races
I can conceive of no good reason for
excluding the colored race from teach-
ing their own flesh and blood. Gen-
eral Shryock was heartily with me in
this matter, and in 1903 a beginning
was made in this direction. Mrs.
Mitchell, a well-qualified colored woman,
taught one of the schools most accept-
ably, while her husband rendered effi-
cient work as the head of the chair-
caning department. Both of them were
most highly complimented by General
Shryock, as well as by the superintend-
ent of the institution.
After some years of effort this
couple, feeling heavily the isolation, re-
signed. Not only would such isolation
cease to exist where a number of
colored persons are thus employed, but
a new and helpful atmosphere would
De created, and the boys living in that
atmosphere, and reflecting the same,
would more and more be transformed
Into the likeness of the same.
I have not one word of criticism of
Mr. Pyles, the superintendent. During
all these years I have come into close
personal contact with him and believe
that he bas honestly striven to do his
whole duty. But in the language of
Grover Cleveland, it is a condition and
not a theory which confronts us.
GEORGE F. BRAGG, JR.
Baltimore July 6
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.