:
:
N EYE FOR AN EYE" RE-
A
reads of the offer of a foreign journalist
to give one of his good eyes to the
French painter Lemordant who has
become blind. There is, in fact, some
virtue in the phrase if science is really
ready to graft a new eye into a blinded
socket and make it work. Mere revenge
has no ethical foundation, but the trans-
fer of an optic to an injured man to
restore his sight would be a reasonable
penalty to exact of the one who had
maliciously caused the injury; and to
give one's eye voluntarily would be self-
denial of heroic type.
BALTIMORE HOUSEWIVES WHO
in the public markets have taken on a
task that has never been completely
carried through, but there is no reason
for them to feel discouraged. Clean
markets are possible, and the markets
of Baltimore might as well be the ones
which first get the prize for sanitary
excellence. That they have missed it
hitherto is not a thing to be proud of,
for they are such an important element
in Baltimore's domestic economy that
one would expect them, above almost
all else, to be kept in first-rate condi-
tion. They are public institutions, so
to speak, but the inspectors and the
market men between them are respon-
sible in many instances for a state of
disorder that is a reproach to the com-
munity. As the Baltimore Housewives'
League, latest crusader for cleanliness,
sets out to create sanitary order in
place of the insanitary chaos which all
too frequently reigns, it will have the
best wishes of other marketers who
know that food should be kept free from
contamination. What is the use of keep-
ing one's home' clean if the markets
where one buys food are dirty?
BOY
OYS AT THE CHELTENHAM
School in Prince George's county, a
negro reformatory, are making brooms
under conditions which have been criti-
cized by President Broening of the Bal-
timore Federation of Labor. But apart
from his charges, which deal with the
alleged unfairness of allowing the manu-
facture of brooms with under-paid con-
tract labor, one wonders why broom-
making is fostered in a rural institution.
Would agriculture not be a more use-
ful and wholesome pursuit? Warden
Sweezey wants to get his men on a
farm, while a school that could farm is
making brooms.
No
JOON DINNER DOES NOT MEET
with the approval of Baltimore
housewives whose views have been as-
certained, and one doubts whether any
large number could be found to support
it on theoretical grounds. To se sure,
a real meal is still being served at mid-
day in many homes where circumstances
are such as to permit the family to as-
semble at that hour; but, generally
speaking, "father" is at work some dis-
tance from home when the noon whistle
blows, and there is no sense in serving
the chief meal of the day with him
away. It would be interesting, perhaps,
to trace the causes which have led to
the abandonment of the noontide dinner,
which only a generation ago was still
popular and which is still customary on
farms and in small towns. Has Amer-
ica so speeded up as to be unable any
more to spend an hour or more for
Junch? Or has Baltimore grown so big
that the average man is unable to find
a job near home, with the result that
the trip home is too long to squeeze into
the noon hour? The latter seems quite
probable; in which case the advocates
of noon dinners and shorter hours for
servants-are up against a large-sized
obstacle.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.