LABOR LEADERS
ATTACK SYSTEM
AT CHELTENHAM
Charge Exploitation Of
Negro Boys At Private
Reform School.
SAY PEONAGE PLAN
NOW EXISTS THERE
Protest Against Contracts
Will Be Filed With Gov-
ernor Ritchie.
Organized labor in Baltimore soon
will file with Governor Ritchie charges
of alleged exploitation, which they term
a form of peonage, of the inmates of
the Cheltenham School for Boys, in
Prince George's county, according to
Henry F. Broening, president of the
Baltimore Federation of Labor.
The Cheltenham school is a negro
reformatory and is supported partly by
the State.
Broommakers Complain.
According to Mr. Broening, outside
contractors are allowed to make use of
the boys in the manufacture of brooms
and similar work, to the detriment of
the trade in general. This. in turn, he
said, has a depressing effect upon wages
paid to skilled workers in the industry,
members of which now are being organ-
ized into a local, affiliated with the
Federation of Labor.
Mr. Broening, accompanied by Sam-
uel Gompers, president of the American
Federation of Labor; H. L. Eichel-
berger, Maryland representative of the
central body; Charles L. Wiegand, sec-
retary of the Baltimore Federation of
Labor, and several other labor leaders,
called on Governor Ritchie at Annapolis
Tuesday and explained their grievances.
Governor Ritchie promised to investi-
gate the complaints and asked Mr.
Broening to file with him a brief of the
charges.
Given Small Pay.
"Boys at the institution are paid
from 16 to 18 cents a day for their
work in broommaking," said Mr. Broen-
ing, "with the result that contractors
employing them can underbid outside
concerns in the same line of business.
Even the Maryland Workshop for the
Blind is not able to compete with the
cut rates of the product from the Chel-
tenham institution. This sort of edu-
cation is not doing the negroes any good
either, because, from investigations we
have made, not one in 100 who come
from there follow the trade of broom-
making when they are discharged.
"Aside from this, however, is the ele-
ment of unfairness all along the line,
as we have been able to observe it.
Some of the chain stores and cut-rate
establishments in Baltimore and else-
where are enabled, through their deal-
ings with Cheltenham contractors, to
offer the product of the shops at prices
which the ordinary dealer, who buys in
the open market, cannot possibly meet.
Called Form Of Peonage.
"We feel that no State-aided insti-
tution should be used for exploitation
in such manner. We understand that
the main object of the Cheltenham
school is to educate the boys to some
useful occupation they will follow after
leaving the school. Cheltenham, ap-
parently, is not doing this but is being
utilized to beat down legitimate labor
values to the enrichment of a few indi-
viduals or firms. This we regard as a
form of peonage and exploitation' in its
worst form."
John B. Pyles, superintendent of
Cheltenham, said that the institution
receives 50 cents a day from the con-
tractors. The boys, he said, make from
$3 to $7 a week, depending on their
agility and also on their ability to do
overtime work.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.