RITCHIE SEEKS DATA
ON PEONAGE CHARGE
Governor To Take No Action At
Cheltenham Until Report
Is Filed.
BROOM CONTRACTOR REPLIES
E. N. Ripple Says Complaint Fol-
lowed Failure To Organize
Union Here.
Governor Ritchie will take no action(
regarding the broom-making and other
contracts at the Cheltenham Reform
School for Colored Boys, in Prince
George's county, until the Federation
of Labor has supplied him with the
information regarding the contracts and
conditions at the school. This the of-
ficials of the federation have promised
to send him. The federation wants the
contract abrogated, it now being en-
gaged in organizing the broom-makers
of the city into a union.
The Governor said yesterday he was
heartily in favor of the principle of not
permitting prison labor to compete with
free labor.
Not State Institution.
"Cheltenham School, however," he
said, "is not a State institution. It re-
ceives State aid and is entitled to its
appropriation this year, contract or no
contract, for the Legslature attached no
strings to the appropriation. I shall be
glad, however, to take the matter up
with the Cheltenham authorities and
find out if some arrangements cannot be
made to put the school in line with the
policy followed at the State institu-
tions."
Charges of alleged exploitation and
peonage at the Cheltenham School made
by officials of the Federation of Labor
are due to disappointment on the part
of organized labor over efforts to enlist
Baltimore broom makers into its ranks,
said E. N. Ripple, of the firm of S. A.
Ripple & Bros., which has the contract
at the reformatory.
Mr. Ripple denied the Cheltenham
situation had anything to do with al-
leged cheap brooms on the general
market.
Boys Pald For Work..
"We have only about 40 of 300 boys
at the institution working for us," he
said, "and what they turn out is not
more than one-quarter of our entire out-
put. The institution receives 50 cents
a day for each worker, and for this we
require three dozen brooms as a day's
work. All over that we pay for at reg-
ular outside working rates, and in this
way some of the more proficient boys
make from $3 to $7 a week.
"The entire trouble with the unions
grew out of recent efforts to form a
local here by Chicago organizers. They
failed in this except that I understand
they have secured about a dozen mem-
bers."
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.