LEAVES ALL TO DESCENDANTS
Will of Hrs. Louisa Wallace Gill
Admitted To Probate.
In her will probated in the Orphans'
Court yesterday. and bequeathing the
halk of her estate to her children and
grandchildren. the late Mrs. Louisa Wal-
lace Gill stated that her jewelry, house-
hold furniture and personal effects in
her home would not form part of her
estate, as she had given them to her
children.
Louise Wallace Hazlehurst, Olivia
Louise. Thompson. Louise Wallace
Macy and Louise Levering, namesakes
of Mrs. Gill, are left $1,000 each.
William Clark, if in Mrs. Gill's e-
ploy at the time of her death, and her
godchild, Charlotte Blanchard, if living,
are also to get $1.000 each.
Each servant other than Clark in Mrs.
Gill's employ two years or more when
sbe died is to receieve $100.
Any inheritance tax on the specific
legacies is to be paid out of the estate.
The residue, including any property left
in trust by Mrs. Gill's father, the late
William Wallace Spence, of which she
had the disposition. is left in trust to
The Mercantile Trust and Deposit Com-
pany. The entire trust estate is to be
livided into four equal shares for Mrs.
Gill's three daughters and the children
of her deceased daughter, Mary Esther
Масу.
Letters on the estate were granted to
the Mercantile Trust and Deposit Com-
pany, which bonded for $500,000.
SENTENCE DELAYS TRIAL
Man: Must Serve 30 Days Before
Facing Liquor Charges.
When, John Lennert, 5 Elm avenue,
Curtis Bay, finishes a sentence of 30
lays imposed by Magistrate Potee in the
Southern Police Court on a charge of
beating his wife, he will have to face
Judge Rose, in the United States Dis-
trict Court, to answer charges of manu
Cacture and possession of illicit whisky.
Before being taken to jail yesterday
Lennert was arraigned before United
States Commissioner Supplee. Police
of the Curtis Bay section testified that
when they went to Lennert's home to
arrest him on complaint of his wife
they found a still in operation, 20 gal-
lons, of mash and the liquor. Lennert
admitted making the whisky and claimed
he used it for tubercular infection. The
Commissioner glanced at Lennert's 240-
pound bulk and rugged complexion and
shook his head.
"I am going to place a detainer against
you for your appearance in court when
your time expires," said Commissioner
Supplée, "and you can tell your story
to the judge."
ILLNESS HALTS SENTENCE
Negro Ordered To Reformatory Is
Found To Have Scarlet Fever.
After Robert Preston, colored, 12
years old. 045 Sarah Ann street, had
been committed yesterday to the Colored
House of Reformation at Cheltenham by
Judge Williams, in the Juvenile Court,
it was learned that the boy was suffer-
ing from a mild.case of scarlet fever.
The sentence was stricken out and he
was turned over to the Health Com-
missioner. The boy was before the court
on a charge of disorderly conduct, but
was sentenced as a minor without prop-
er care.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.