<<<<<<< Updated upstream
Enoch Pratt Library Case TO THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir: May
I challenge the closing paragraphs of your edi- torial,. "A
New Challenge for Negroes," in which, in, regard to the
recent court decision admitting qualified colored
applicants to the Enoch Pratt Free Library training course,
you warn: "Now that the court ruling removes this racial
distinction they must not expect special consideration
because they are Negrocs must win their way on indi- vidual
merit." . Anyone familiar with the strenuous efforts which
colored citizens have had to make to gain admission to the
University of Maryland, which is supported by their taxes,
to be ac- cepted for employment on the police force, to be
employed as social workers, knows that there is no danger
of any colored citizen re- ceiving special consideration
because of his race. To an observer with a simple sense of
justice it is clear that the colored people have never
expected special consideration, only equal treatment. ...
As a practical excursion into the realities of the color
question, have your writers inter- view just a few of the
hundreds of skilled, business, and professional job
applicants among young colored citizens and listen to their
experiences. A colored citizen always has to be more
skilled, better qualified, able to - double the
qualifications_of a white citizen, to get a job, and then
in the majority of cases he is barred simply because of his
race.... JUANITA MITCHELL, Director, Citizens Committee for
Justice. Baltimore, Oct. 22. Palestine And The Future TO
THE EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir: Allow me to thank you for the
very interesting and de- tailed reports by Faul W. Ward, of
your Wash- ington Bureau, about Palestine. To me, and
thousands of other readers, Palestine and its future is a
very dear and interesting topic. We could almost prophesy
what's in store for our world by the attitude that this
same world will assume toward the yearning of the rem-
nants of European Jewry to settle in Pales- tine. If the
leading nations will do justice to the Jews and return
Palestine to them-then they will also be just in their
international relations with one another and a finer and
nobler world will emerge from the chaos of World War II.
If, on the other hand, the great nations or their leaders
will break sacred pledges and.condemn a tortured people to
per- petual dispersion-then they lack a sense of justice
and will eventually abuse one another, and that will lead
to conflict which will put a finish to human civilization.
Thus the degree in which Jews are enabled to fulfill their
aspirations in Palestine serves, to me, as a barometer of
the conscience of mankind. And, whereas we could do little
to change the course of human destiny, we should at least
be well-informed. And such information. Paul W. Ward's
correspondence provides in a splendid manner. Baltimore,
Oct. 21. DR. JACK SHOBIN. Cheltenham School For Boys TO THE
EDITOR OF THE SUN-Sir: I have been instructed by the board
of managers of the Cheltenham School for Boys to express to
you our appreciation of the editorial of October 15. We
feel that you presented the facts in the situation most
accurately, clearly and persuasively. You may be interested
to know that the contractor has promised us the use of our
security unit within three weeks. While it is a makeshift
use of very poor present equip- ment, we think that it will
provide custody of chronic runaways and protect the
community. The only satisfactory answer to the prob- lem is
the building of the new school, which will furnish these
facilities at their best. Then we can really give the boys
a good training program while providing the custody that
will safeguard any community. President, Board of Managers,
Chelten- ham School for Boys. | Cheltenham, Md., Oct. 22.
F. REID ISAAC,
=======
CHELTENHAM AGAIN. Some time ago we had occasion to call
attention to the treatment accorded to the inmates of the
so-called reformatory at Cheltenham, in Prince Georges Co.
The matter came to the attention of the State authorities,
and at their solicta- tion we sent a member of our staff
down there to investigate the conditions. We were told that
the cruelties that had been formerly practiced there were
done away with and that a new regime had been introduced.
Since that time we have heard nothing from the institu-
tion until now. In referring to an arti- cle taken from a
dispatch to the Even- ing News, it will be seen that if the
old time practices were done away with they have been
renewed. The dispatch states that a "wee color- ed youth"
was found on the streets of Washington with not only a ball
and chain to his legs, but hand.cuffs on his wrists. This
shows that the ball and chain, which we have called
attention to heretofore, has not been done away with,
notwithstanding the statements made to the authorities.
This Cheltenham is a most degrading institution, and is
doing the young Ne- groes of this State more harın, if such
a thing is possible, than the Baltimore City Jail. And it
would be'a mercy to these boys to commit them to the jail
than to such an infernal hole as this Cheltenham. When we
published Mrs. Douglass' letter, the city authorities and
the au- thorities of Cheltenham were horrified beyond
measure, and expressed them- selves so; and now it is shown
that the truth was told, notwithstanding their strenuous
denials. Of course when the city authorities and the Grand
Jury visits that place everything is in good order, but as
soon as their backs are turned the same old condition of
affairs are taken up again. It is time that sach steps were
taken against this institution that will either put it out
of basiness or reform it al- together. It can only be
reformed ed by turning the whole batch of keepers out of
the establishment altogether, They are brutal and the boys
of the institu- tion have no reason to remember the
institution when they get cut of it. save to curse the day
they were incar- cerated within its infamous walls. The
idea of putting handcuffs and a ball and chain on such
children as the one mentioned is an ontrage, and the
society that has the care of this, institu- on should be
prosecuted to the full extent of the law for cruelty to
chil- dren It has been claimed by the authorities of this
institution that the boys cannot be kept from running away
unless they are confined in some way, and the ball and
chain seems to be their cheadest and best way: Now further
down in the same county is a reform school that is worthy
of the name "Reform." We speak of the Hart Farm School. To
this school the worst boys that cau be found in the
District of Columbia are sent, and after a few attempts to
get away, which many of them do. they find that it is
better to stay, as the treatment received there is so
different to what they ex- pected. There boys are treated
as if they were human beings. They are well fed and well
taken care of, and in the course of time good homes are
fonud for them and they get a good chance to have a good
start in life. There are no brutal keepers, no whipping, no
ball and chain and no fences to keep the boys from running
away. The boy is taught the value of good conduct, re-
ceive good treatment, and is taught to believe that he is a
human being. with all that that implies, The result is that
the officials of the District have no hesi- tancy in
endorsing the good work that is being done at the Hart Farm
School We wish that Cheltenham could be brought under such
influences. But right here we will say that nothing can be
expected of this demoralizing so-call- ed reformatory until
the colored citi. zens of this city shall raise up and take
the matter into their own hands and de- mand at the hands
of the properly qual- ifed authorities better treatment for
the boys committed to this place or that it be abolished
entirely. . .
>>>>>>> Stashed changes
